
--- Page 1 ---
IRSE/7

Institution of Railway Signal Engineers

Back to basics: train protection

Questions for the Certificate (Module A) will not be set

on the text which has been struck through

Effective from October 2023 exam

“The driver

is constantly
making
judgements
about the safe
movement of
their train”

10

David Fenner

This, the fifth article on ‘back to basics’
themes, covers the subject of train
protection. The fundamental requirement
of a railway signalling system is to ensure a
train movement can be completed with the
minimum of risk from human error, while

at the same time allowing as many trains

as possible to run on a given infrastructure.
Much of the focus of a signalling engineer is
on the design of the infrastructure control
system that ensures safe routing of the trains
and supports the person responsible for
that activity, the signaller. But the other key
operative is the driver.

The history of railway signalling is very often about
the development of systems to prevent the wrong
signal being given to a driver and the evolution

of the technology that underpins that function.
Relatively little relates to supporting the driver,
although it would be wrong to assume there is
none. It is worth considering the different roles to
see if there is any underlying reason for this. The
signaller is dealing with a fixed set of equipment
that has a limited range of states and thus a limited
set of options. The requirement is to set specific
routes at given times to permit the safe passage of
a train, and to be reminded which of those actions
have yet to be completed. The driver on the other
hand is constantly making judgments about the
safe movement of the train based on information
from their own route and train performance
knowledge, signs at the trackside and the signals
seen. And in the case of signals seen these can
and often will be changing minute by minute as
other traffic moves. So the computational task of
assisting a driver is significantly more sophisticated
than that required to support a signaller. Maybe
this is why train protection systems seem to have
evolved more slowly, with the sophistication of
train protection requiring computing power akin
to a processor not a logic box.

Supporting the driver starts with providing clear
and concise signal indications so there is no
confusion in the meaning and limited opportunity
to read the wrong one. One can wonder how
drivers could see a dim oil lamp flickering behind
a coloured lens as they approached many of the
mechanical signals still in service, at least in the
UK until as little as 15 years ago. Many years ago,
drivers had the advantage of a dark sky with the
general absence of town and street lighting. Now
of course most signals are colour lamps but often
against a much brighter background. The problem
is how do we help the driver respond to those
signals and what other support do we need to give
them to limit the number of accidents. There are
two main errors a driver can make:

« Failure to control the speed of the
train correctly.
。 Failure to stop at the defined End of
Authority (EoA).
It is these functions a train protection
system must address.

The remainder of this article will start by
examining the various types of train protection
and how those may affect the performance of the
railway. It will then provide a generalised review
of the development of systems to outline the key
requirements with examples of systems from the
UK and other countries.

Warning or protection

Within the overall scope of train protection there
are two main sub divisions, warning systems

and protection systems. A warning system will
normally be associated with the location at which
braking should commence whereas a protection
system will aim to stop the train at or soon after
the End of Authority (EoA). A warning system

will alert the driver to take note of information
presented from the trackside and may initiate

--- Page 2 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

Supporting the driver

by relaying accurate
information in the cab and
reducing the possibility

of mistakes being made
has been a long running
focus of the command,
control and signalling
industry. The view may
have improved from the
steam era to the modern
day (as shown above)

but increased speed and
traffic complicates the
situation.

Photos Westinghouse
B&S Archive/
Chippenham Museum and
Shutterstock/aapsky.

“Train stops
reduce capacity
because
extended
overrun distance
increases

the headway
between trains”

braking action if the driver fails to acknowledge
the warning. After acknowledgement the train is
usually solely under driver control. A protection
system will enforce a brake application should
the system detect the train is being driven outside
safe parameters. There are several sub-divisions
of protection systems. It should be noted there is
overlap between some of these classifications.

Train stops

Probably the most basic but effective form of train
protection, train stops are typically mechanical
devices that trigger a brake application if passed
when in the ‘protecting’ position. They are
usually associated with a stop signal. A train stop
will ensure the train comes to a halt at braking
distance beyond. To be effective in eliminating
accidents they require an extended protected
length of track beyond the signal, which limits
application to lines with relatively low top speeds
(around 80km/h) and good brake performance
— typically metros. There are two fundamental
weaknesses with such systems; firstly, they
reduce capacity because the extended overrun
distance increases the headway between trains,
and secondly, they do not address the issue of
overspeed at other locations. There have been
applications where timed release of train stops is
used to monitor speed, especially approaching
buffer stops or high-risk junctions, but they are
difficult to implement successfully.

Intermittent train protection

Intermittent train protection is provided at those
locations assessed to pose significant risk. These
are usually junctions with substantial traffic or a
particular layout that creates additional risk, for
example where there is a chance of head-on
collision. As a train approaches such sites it passes
through a speed trap and if above a pre-set speed
will experience a forced brake application.

In more recent systems it will be fed information
about the current conditions and then calculates
the safe speed profile to be followed.

Modern systems of this type usually require
the fitment of an Automatic Train Protection
(ATP) system to the trains but avoid expensive

investment in a comprehensive trackside ATP
installation. Many of the systems introduced
prior to the turn of the century (2000) can be
considered to be of this form.

Train protection with intermittent update

These systems continuously monitor the
movement of the train to ensure it is within the
safe envelope. The driver is provided with an
indication of the current maximum safe speed but
otherwise drives to the signals and signs observed
at the trackside. The train picks up information
about the infrastructure ahead including the
traffic conditions at intermittent intervals, usually
from a balise or beacon or from inductive loops
laid in the track. The intermittent intervals are
usually associated with a signal, to facilitate the
inclusion of information about the extent of any
current movement authority and any speed limits
associated with that authority.

These systems provide full supervision of the
driver at all times and will intervene to reduce the
train speed back within the safe envelope prior to
returning control to the driver. The exception to
this is in the event of a Signal Passed at Danger
(SPAD) when a ‘trip’ state is entered and the

train is brought to a halt. The systems normally
include roll back protection, a function of most
ATP systems, to prevent the train rolling away
when brakes are released but traction power

is not applied.

Because the system only receives intermittent
updates, the system may restrict track capacity
because the train must be driven according to the
last update received and may thus continue to
enforce a reducing speed even though the signal
ahead has changed to a less restrictive aspect. A
means of partially overcoming this constraint is
to have ‘infill’ in the form of loops or additional
balises which augment the update frequency,
especially approaching critical signals.

One advantage of such ATP systems is, because
the train is being driven on conventional signals,
the system can be overlaid on the railway to
enhance safety. It is thus possible to partially
equip either or both track and trains with only

11

--- Page 3 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

selected portions of the route and chosen trains      elsewhere is a typical example. If a distant
being protected. One disadvantage with this is         signal is approached with a clear indication the
that an unfitted train which SPADS, may encroach     driver receives a bell (or gong) sound and is free
on the path of a fitted train, resulting in a serious      to continue. Should the signal be at caution
accident. Thus, this arrangement would ideally        the sound is a buzzer (or horn) and the driver
only be used as a migratory configuration.              must acknowledge this both to turn off the

.             .       .          .                         sound and prevent a brake application. After
Train protection with continuous update       acknowledgement the driver is responsible for
These systems have the facility to provide updated ”the continued motion of the train. These basic
movement authority information at any time.          functions are almost identical to the French
Consequently, they are often part of an in-cab         “Crocodile” system.
signalling system because the driver is continually       _.

:  °       °  tis interesting-+t te-how-thetechnel f
fed information on the current safe speed and is      ty     .    i   网      1  总
no longer required to watch for lineside signals              y                 ged The
or signs. There may be other reasons, outside          ‘        Li      了了      o
the scope of the signalling system, for the driver       in- 1906 and implemented shortly afterwards  .
to watch the passing trackside and one of the
challenges is to ensure the right balance is struck

,          :        :                            th,      lactrical faed-to indicate cl      ad
between watching the displays in the cab and                                                     3
j        fl                                        electrical charge wh     t-ceaution. This foll
watching the line.                                            ~
the“failsafeprinciple-b   se-theabsen  f
Another challenge with these systems is that the      electricity could arise       ral-fail      ituation:
driver is given advice on the safe speed profile           A     sthe mechanicaHlifting- of th       tact
based on the train parameters encoded in the          上      eulteHfait      44      ften-The-problem
“If these                   system. If these parameters are wrong the driver         ith        hanicat     tactsystentisw        全
may be advised to brake later in the journey than      tearespecially as speed and frequency of use
parameters are      is desirable, with the risk of passing the End of       increases as was inevitable when Multiple Aspect
wrong the driver authority (EoA) - the equivalent of a SPAD. Thisis 。 Signalling (MAS)-becarne-commeon-—The forra-of
may be advised      of particular concern for variable formation trains,     WS inaplemented-by British Rail    s-fr.    th
to brake later         especially locomotive-hauled freight trains, but is    495.0s-u:    rnagneti    duct    to-convey-the
.       .            also relevant at times when adhesion is poor.         signal-statuste-the train During the 1950s-wh
”                                                                    可                                可
than is desirable        7                    -     加    the-system   bei    talled     onduct
The major advantage of such systems is the ability 77                 ie      . smn  htep th
SS    并        sot     Gott p     Ht     +4

to enhance the capacity of the infrastructure.

Because the train and infrastructure are in regular     train-used relays Teday the logic is performed

.        .   .       5  PL   At.   netic-field-detectedb
contact, and with a safe speed display in the cab,       了                     也
the limitations of fixed lineside signalling with          Hall Effect sensor
a limited number of aspects can be removed.          WS-uses-a-perm     tmagnet-centrally located
Thus, a fixed block railway is no longer limited         between the rails to initiate the onboard system
to say four or five aspect signals, meaning closer         d-provide the-dei       ith-e-warningif-th
running is possible and, more importantly,             ignatis-at     ti.       top-      lect      gnet
release of trains held at a converging junction          is positioned inamediately afterwards wher
can happen significantly earlier with very short         ignalLmay-show-atine-cl       pectThi         id
block sections. This form of protection is a              gnetis    rgised-when-thesignalis-clear
corner stone of moving block systems and the         {g      )-and-effectively        Is the         9;
heart of Communication Based Train Control        instead sounding-abellinthe-cab (see Figure 二
(CBTC). Metro railways have been able to gain        The     hc     dile"-syst           ysthe twe
significant uplift in service frequency as a result         ssages-from-the infrastructure to the train by
of such application, for example the Victoria line      different voltages appliedtothe“Crocodile’ramp
in London increased from around 30 to 36 trains        Heeted-b:      iro-brush-on-the de        hiet

per hour in the peak as a result of implementing       mechanically centacting the ramp.

CBTC. Continuous update train protection
thus offers enhanced performance and options

To-ensure the two-successive magnets are

for reduced trackside equipment as well as         detect 对 et    peed th  system delays output
-      ae        te-the driver for aporoximatelyen         cate
improved safety, making the business justification          :              ii          了     -       ‘
measurably easier.                                     passing the-p         ‘emmagnet this provides
time for a-stowly moving train te-detect th
The advantages of in cab signalling and increased      lectromagnet priorte initiating th        ing
capacity by removal of lineside signals usually         seq       ltthen-gives the dei      roundthr
means either all trains must be fitted with a             5      dst     knewledg        rning-anc-obser
suitable system or the configuration of existing        the-signalttn     knowledgementis         Jd
signals needs to be amended to allow changes        the-brakes-will be applied On passing the signal
in operational rules. This poses a significant cost      displaying+th      tior-aspeetthetrain- should
hurdle before such benefits can be gained.             stop-at or before the associated step signal Thus
Warni                                      the AWS trackside Installation is placed      d
arning systems                            4 seeends befere the signat-whichis       lly
Warning systems are usually designed and             interpreted-as about 180m.
positioned to alert the driver to the presence of         key-technical-chatl      Cop AWC         sui
a signal or sign at the trackside. The Automatic            ication to third-rait Tesi     4    a    t   了
Warning System (AWS) in the UK and used              PP                             ed       Fact

12

--- Page 4 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

The “Crocodile” system conveys two messages to the train by different voltages fed
to the ramp. The right hand photo shows Eurobalises, TBL antenna and Crocodile
together in a Belgian application.

Photos Wikimedia CC-BY-SA Charlotte Noblet (left) and Francois Melchior.

AWS receiver
pre Hall effect

Dragging equipment              TPWS receiver
ramp
=

AWS. Left trackside magnets, right, train-carried equipment.
Photos David Fenner.

1) Signal green. Train responds to both magnets,
sounds bell to driver, no action.

2) Signal NOT green. Train responds to one magnet,
sounds horn to driver. If driver does not respond
to horn brake applied after 2-3 seconds. If driver

responds no action by system.                                                                                           Control Centre

Controls points and signals.
Watches train position from
train detection sections.
Electri                                                  All signals fitted with AWS.
lectric magnet
only energised when         Permanent
signal green               magnet

___Train detection section2 detection section 2

URDU

/0808—

Approx 200m

Figure 1 — AWS application Trains with AWS or full TPWS can share the line.

13

--- Page 5 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

“Another
challenge is the
increasing use
of bi-directional
signalling”

“Train stops are
still a mitigation
measure rather
than a control
system”

Where-high-current DC tractio   tern      d      dents-eaused by-exeess speed the need t
there-is-a-risk of cross-track-cables-ereating-stray!    tintue-to-reduee-the-harm-caused-by accidents
mnagnet fields_tnthis-case the AWS detectors-on  tegeth  ith these-humantack   knesses
the trains-were-desensitised-and-extra- strength    subsequently resulted in the-developmentofth
magnets-provided for the trackside AWS function:   Frain Protection Warning System-FPWS)-
tom   se the risk of false AWS information from   feature of AWS and many similar systomeis
they give the dx       ftwetndications-at
ther-challenge is the i    sing-use-of bi        y-signat—Fhus-any-fai   the train
direetienatsighating- Withthe maghnetsinthe      quip   t

tre_ef the track_trains-in-eitherdirection-will     n-be-managed through-approp   procedures:
detect the fields. Thus; trains passing-overan      hath   se-of AWSthe-use-of a-pernanent
installation intended forthe opposite direction of magnet ensures-that  maplete-faiture-ofth:
ementwillexperience-a- warning since the    trackside installation is-very    te-and-simitary
perm   tmnagnhetwitLbe the last item-passed.    the-driverwillnet   rongindication-ttshould-b
Ontracks-where-this is-aninfrequent   urrence     dersteed-AWS is nota-fail-safe-systen-with
sig    be installed    ind-the-driver-this    high Si-rating-Htis-therefore important that fault
warning does net apply to themtntocatio:       are+reported promptly and suitabl    SUES
here sueh      tis   frequentor-would — taker-to-operate- safely after dis
tin the-needto+regulary acknowledge          .
irrelevant AWS-warnings-the permanent magnet   Basie protection systems
is-surroundedbya.  fect  mag  二  iL  Rich      于    Hi. stp  tact.  syst  S-   retrain-st  ps
suppresses the permanent magnetic field wh     placed-on-the track atthe  i   fastop
a   erse-directi            ti.  ignall d—Fh. Se     sig  |  Sp   1   sty deseribed—WAh:   +4  sig  上
tputsare feetuiredfrernthe interlocking     js-shewinge asteP-aspPeet  re-is-raised-typically
学 £     tju t+to-indicat   A.   +A,  ig  Lis        50-60m:   上    Faith: ight Fhis-   gages  ith,
showing-a-green- aspect but als   hen-areverse    trip.   kK   the-train-which-op:     lant   th

bral    bral

ine-forci     lication The
pipe toreing  PP ATA

g   t Fnay enable ene AWS installati       il be-passing the signatat danger befere th
5   fore   ignals-readiagin-oppesite     brakes   pptiedin-whieh-context this-is-a-SPAD
directions-In-this-case the p:     tmagnet     mitigation measure rather than-pr   tion Wh
iiLhavetwe-elect         itherend     the-signalis-clearthetrip-arntistowered bet
ssociated-with the relevant signak             railevel_Train- stops    normally-provided
，       ，   ，         ，        or-metres-operating int   Sb:   Se ef
MtHtiple asPeet SignatthehasfesttteeHih-Fnest    significant-risk-of   Uision-in-such locations.
signals-being-equipped- with AWS      he-th        Extension t
d-for-dri      |     led      "    bi                      ‘
二        也           ff     fulloretecti
automatic reacts       iallyawh           P
a                7 SSP    J           + bring +he-t
perating    Agested-raitway    strict          ttainable-s
spects-Indeed_this caused the Souther         r       上
-     7                               +
Reg   British Raitte-experimentwith-an       braint |
Si
sephistieated form-of SighaLR    tic AWS             <
ine     ~        ~    aiid             perating
{SRAWS)-during the-early 1970's butinthe-end                ，
this-was-netadested-Th   bl   ¢instineti     throught
r                  next signal
hams t                 y bana allt                speed fr      standing start      itHne ai    ‘S
sys   S  perma     fnPerafy   th    tis oft  a  tieable due te _high
speed restrictions. These requirements arose after         ed   人   Prac 6         9 "ef
Pp            4            speeds and-extended braking dist  S-

“Classic” trainstops on the Berlin S-Bahn, photo taken in 2007.
Photo Kabi/Wikimedia.

14

--- Page 6 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

1) AWS as before.

2) If train speed less than overspeed sensor value
when signal red no action, if overspeed brakes
applied for minimum one minute.

3) If train (front end) passes train stop when signal

red brakes applied for one minute.                                                                                        Control Centre
Controls points and signals.
TPW:        ]             1                                                                                    Watches train position from
S equipment active                     TPWS only fitted to signals protecting         train detection sections.

only when signal red                      junctions and other "high risk" signals

TPWS train stop                    AWS                   TPWS overspeed
sensor

Train detection section 1                                     Train detection section 2

Typically up to 350m

Figure 2 — Typical TPWS installation.

Frain-steps- have moved on-significantlyfromthis  FPWSis-consideredto-#    igh-probabitity
technolegy-but they are-still   tion:    stepping-apassengert  thin-th:  tap
ther-th:   trotsystem.  fly ak     provided-the apPreaeh-speedHis het greater th
pnechanicateentacttirain-st ey  ter:      in Rh-L29k /上} cLadhesi   detiverth:
4dusit-firstinstalled in-Germany-and-s   ding  braking-effortef the train-Where approach- speeds
tries-in-the 1930s-and-revived- inthe 1950s.  are-greater- than-75mph-and risk is assessed-to-b
S  Lenh   ts have subsequent!    high-additionat  speecoops- may-be-provided
urred-leading-to-the-systen knewh-as-PZB90-   ti   pproach-te-the-signalFigure 3
Fhree-tones-are-generated-on-the driving vehicl    leat) 7  二  stantially mitigates-th
andinteractwith passive tuned-coil:   ted
s-required-trackside-The-tuned-coils cause
‘  1
senate resutting+  imped:   Rang  rc)
toneis.a-train- stop forcing a brake appiicati
and  ttyB ty   t  pr ing 全
signat- Fhe 1999Hztk    s-typically associated

low  xinaum-speedandis-eften- placed short!
before-aredsignal
Indusituned-coils are installed-on-the- sleep:
eb   they-are-naturally only detected by a
hicle travelling   directi   dde-netneed
uppression for oppesite-direction movements.
FPWS-in-the Ui-has related functionality in that
“     .          £    jaAthi:     i  fh.      A-65kHz—a:
TPWS is only      mitted by track mounted loope this time    TPWS-is-an intermittent train protection syst
provided at       * a    ae in :  k 和  H    b   seit   ty-provided-atleeationsthatare
locations that     two-arming-and one trigger-are-used forth       ee eee ee eee
matdi   i    £.            d-theother       PI      g       i)   t          了
are deemed     tase forte “er of movement and tf   *     ther signals fwhere the SPAD-tiski    edLas
high-risk”        directional-track—Th:  FON ide-the-functi       high} buffer steps-ands    speed-reductions
eat  c-trap'_fera-train- travelling faster-th:   here-the-approach speed  xeeeds-6Omph

SPI    眼            gras:          approximately LOCkma/h}
deemedsafeandatrainstop-Figure2Skhould                      °
ion b

ither-the-speed-trap-ortrain-stop-funct       Fhe-FPWS-systemis- active te step atrain se
activated a full brake application is initiated and   key-requirementis  firming thetracksid
intained:-for  minute-bringing the train     :   ;   woes      iced Thi
astandthetocation at-which the train step:    后好  by meniteriagth:    tfedto-th:
functi  fHthetrainbrat   fe      d    transmitting toops-Should this fat outside the
月                  -
theihitiatsPeed-Pfriertethe brake application.   intended _parameters-an indication is-giventeth
Fh.  is    tainty-this-willbe-in-e-safet  +      Per   g-signallerand-the-signalin-rearheld

15

--- Page 7 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

TPWS equipment                                                   TPWS only fitted to signals protecting
active only when                                                 junctions and other "high risk" signals
signal red
TPWS train stop              AWS            TPWS overspeed                               TPWS+ overspeed                                  AWS
sensor                                      sensor (when used)
Trigger loop Arming loop                      Trigger loop  Arming loop    Electromagnet Permanent
(only active when magnet
|                    signal green)
eeeeeee koe  peewee le
ee eo
>

Typically up to 350m

TPWS+ typically 750m

Figure 3 — Typical TPWS installation including AWS.

“Full ATP systems
continuously
monitor the
movement of the
train”

16

t-danger-Similarlyth:  board.  i  +i
tic-to-confirm iti

Hf-diag

ittentt

ith SHL4 requirements,
fety-needs-to-b   trolled-by-suitable
p  dures in-th   tota-fault
PZB90-nerFPWS-car-p:  ft at  idents
sth    intermittent systems. Bothn systems
ar    idec-with facilities to-atlow-the-drivert
syster-aftera-brake int   tien-and
e-with-the journey, Such reset is required
te   nd      dereontrotted-e}   St   S
invelving-conamunicati   ith-the-signalle:
troller-In-both-cases-_there-is-evid   上
drivers sometimes resetting without foll
th  FreetB  村   th the pot

Full ATP systems with

intermittent update

Full ATP systems continuously monitor the
movement of the train and intervene with a brake
application should the speed go outside the safe
envelope. An indication of a suitable speed is given
to the driver, this speed usually having a small
margin beneath the safe speed envelope. These
systems are normally designed in accordance with
SIL 4 requirements.

ted

'g
tiaLfer

To enable the train to continuously calculate
and monitor the safe speed profile information is
needed about several parameters:

¢ Infrastructure profile.

¢ Distance to the end of the movement authority
(i.e. stop signal) (EoA).

¢ Current speed of the train.

¢ Distance travelled.

¢ Braking performance of the train.
¢ Maximum train speed.

The infrastructure profile must reflect the
permitted speed, including any temporary speed
limits, covering at least the distance within the
current movement authority. This includes speed
limits over junctions which may vary depending
on the route allocated. It also needs to include
the gradient profile over the same distance as
changes to gradient can have a significant effect
on stopping distance.

The location of the EoA either needs to be known
or at least it is beyond the range that currently
needs to be considered (e.g. when driving on
green signals or the equivalent). To calculate the
ongoing speed profile, it is obviously necessary to
know the current speed and how far the train has
travelled to enable the remaining distance to any
speed change to be determined.

The braking performance of the train is a
key parameter in performing the safe speed
envelope calculation.

The data about the infrastructure including route
set and signal status is usually fed to the train
intermittently as data telegrams by balises or
beacons, most of which will be associated with

a signal (Figure 4). Some systems use inductive
loops laid in the track to pass the relevant
telegrams. Infill may be provided where the
intermittent transmission of data has a significant
impact on operational capability.

The need to know speed and distance travelled
results in some fairly complex configurations of
equipment on board the train. The wheel to rail
interface is notoriously challenging with relatively
low adhesion. This makes simple odometry
inadequate for the purposes of ATP especially as
the objective is a system with high safety integrity.
Slip (during acceleration) and slide (during braking)
are relatively likely, both creating erroneous
information if reliance is placed on wheel rotation.
Some systems use an unpowered and under
braked (or unbraked) axle as the sensor input.

--- Page 8 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

1) Beacon tells train ‘colour of signal’, permitted speeds
distance to next beacon, gradient etc.

2) Train computer calculates maximum safe speed,
advises driver by display in cab.

3) Driver obeys lineside signals and signs.

4) If driver exceeds safe speed brakes applied.

Infill loop updates trains
approaching signals where
time may be lost if signal
changes aspect

A beacon is connected to every
signal colour and informs train
of signal state

Train detection section 1                     Trait

detection section 2

Control Centre
Controls points and signals.
Watches train position from

train detection sections.

_Train detection section 3 _ detection section 3

—
Ola

ig TTI

|

el

Ba

a                                                       Wee
/0808——_                                                                          aws
TBL beacon

Signal 1

Figure 4 — ATP with
intermittent update (as
used by Network Rail
between London and
Bristol).

“Odometry for
ATP is often a
mix of systems to
counteract the
weakness of any
one of them”

Signal 2          TBL beacon

Another risk with wheel rotation is the slow but
steady change in size as the wheel wears. Doppler
radar is sometimes used, but is not without
challenges especially in damp or snowy conditions
and of course like wheel rotation it is subject to a
steady build-up of position error unless corrected.
Use of a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)
offers another means. However, it rarely covers all
conditions, examples being tunnels and urban or
other ‘canyons’ where lost or reflected signals can
affect the calculated position. Thus, odometry for
ATP is often a mix of systems to counteract the
weakness of any one of them and to support the
determination of the margin of error on the actual
estimated position which will tend to increase over
time and distance travelled. Balises or beacons

on the infrastructure are frequently used as a
reference point to correct accumulated error. Not
surprisingly odometry problems are potentially
the biggest cause of train equipment failure for
some ATP systems.

A further result of the challenge with odometry

is the need for a “release” speed with many ATP
systems. Because the train cannot know exactly
where it is the ATP system will assume worst

case error and therefore bring the train to a halt

a short distance prior to the current EoA. This is

a significant problem if the next update function
is located close to the EoA and in the case of the
EoA being at the end of a station platform when,
for station purposes, it is important to get close to
the platform end. To counteract these challenges,
it is normal for the ATP system to return full
control to the driver on final approach to the EoA
provided the train is then operated below a low
“release” speed. This of course means there needs
to be a short safe overrun beyond the EoA should
the train pass beyond the EoA, when a “trip” state
will be entered to bring the train to a stand.

Braking capability is the final parameter the system
needs. This is generally relatively simple for fixed
formation multiple unit trains, although a given
axle may under-perform due to a maintenance

Signal 3         TBL beacon

issue. It is a far more complex challenge for
variable formation locomotive hauled trains,
especially freight trains. The usual arrangement

is to request the driver to enter or select brake
data as part of train preparation. One challenge

in defining the brake performance is whether the
system needs one or both the service brake and
emergency brake parameters, and ensuring the
rolling stock and signal engineer are discussing
the same function! The rolling stock engineer will
often regard the emergency brake as the brake
of last resort (i.e. a vented air pipe) which may
result in a lower deceleration rate because electric
braking and wheel slide prevention systems may
be disabled. If the emergency brake rate is lower
than the service brake rate it will tend to dominate
the operating profile because it will require the
train to be slowed earlier than the service brake.
Thus, it is important to be clear between parties
exactly what the parameters mean and how

they will be used.

The inputs from the above data sources are
typically fed to a multi-channel processing

system prior to being presented to the driver as a
permitted speed indication and when necessary to
the brake activation interface.

Full ATP systems with continuous
update

These systems have the same basic functionality
and challenges as described for intermittent
update systems, but the data about infrastructure
condition is able to be updated at any time. Such
systems allow in cab signalling as the driver can be
informed of an update to signalling conditions via
the cab display.

Early systems achieved continuous update by
transmitting codes to the train via track circuits.

In practice the number of codes capable of
transmission this way is severely restricted. So
usually the train was given a maximum running
speed and a target speed to achieve at the end of
the section. Information such as speed restrictions

17

--- Page 9 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

Opposite ends of

the coded track train
protection speed
spectrum:

Left, the LGV-Est line in
France, equipped with
TVM430.

Right, London
Underground's Central
Line.

Photos Shutterstock/olrat,
Shutterstock/Ttatty.

“CBTC systems
incorporate
continuous
ATP protection
using radio

communications”

18

or gradient would have to be used as part of the
design process when configuring the system for
the railway. This method of providing continuous
update is limited to lines using rolling stock with
very similar brake performance, or at least has to
be based on the worst brake performance train
permitted. It was the backbone of the original
London Underground Victoria Line automatic train
operation system from 1965 until recently and is
the basis of the signalling on many of the French
LGV lines signalled using TVM 430. A significant
challenge with such systems is the need to ensure
the train can detect the track circuit code prior

to shorting the track circuit current as part of the
train detection role. Thus, assuming the detector is
at the front of the train, it is necessary for all track
circuit feeds to be ahead the train which means
that reversal of feed and detector functions is
necessary for any lengths of track used reversibly.

Another early method of providing continuous
update was via a loop usually between the rails
which radiates data to the train. The German LZB
system is perhaps the best known of this form and
is also the parent system for several others of this
type (e.g. SELTrac). In this particular case the data
rate is low by modern standards (1200 baud up
link to the train; 600 baud down link). Thus, the
data volumes handled between track and train
are relatively low (circa 85 bits per telegram). As

a result much of the calculation is performed in
the LZB control centre and limited target speed
data is passed to the train. The loops in the four
foot are crossed every 100m which both reduces
interference and provides a distance monitoring
function to the train by reversing the phase of the
radiated signal.

The system is in relatively widespread use through
Germany and Spain, especially on high speed lines,
with other applications in Austria and elsewhere.

The most recent systems in this category are
urban CBTC train control systems and ETCS
Level 2 and above, both of which use radio
systems to transmit data between track and train.

The major advantage of mobile data packet
systems is the much larger and reliable data
bandwidth, meaning more of the processing can
be performed on the train and be relevant to the
specific train, resulting in better optimisation.
They also both open the way for the train to
inform the infrastructure of its position and its
operating performance.

CBTC

Many current resignalling projects for metro
railways are based on Communications Based
Train Control (CBTC). As the title suggests this is

a highly integrated form of train control covering
all the important functions of train movement
including route setting, train location, movement
authority often based on moving block, train
supervision and train driving. In the latest systems
CBTC is often used on a railway working under
Automatic Train Operation (ATO) or a higher grade
of automation with the objective of providing the
maximum achievable capacity on the routes fitted.

CBTC systems incorporate continuous ATP
protection using radio communications between
the train and the trackside installation. The actual
form of the radio link, which is also used for other
aspects of the CBTC system, varies between

both supplier and application and may include
Wi-Fi and 4G/LTE, although the majority of new
systems are likely to use 4G/LTE. The detailed
methods of implementation are proprietary to
the manufacturer.

Most systems of this type have been implemented
on individual lines of a metro or on people mover
systems (e.g. at airports). This has the advantage
of a limited range of rolling stock making the train
parameters consistent and thus maximising the
capacity gain from moving block.

Two disadvantages are the need, especially on a
high capacity metro, of having a highly reliable
system requiring layers of redundancy, and the
proprietary nature of the systems from each
manufacturer which for commercial reasons
restricts the use of such systems on a large
network of lines.

--- Page 10 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

“The advent

of through
international
trains such as
Eurostar required
the trains to

be fitted with
multiple train
protection and
communication
systems”

China's CTCS system
shares many concepts
with ETCS but has
developed very quickly
in order to keep up

with infrastructure
developments across the
country.

Photo Shutterstock/
kikujungboy.

ETCS

Until the around the 1990s most EU countries
had their own train protection systems as well as
signalling and communications arrangements.
This resulted in relatively closed markets for
signalling products and required different
systems to be available on any driving vehicle
that might cross from one country to another.
The advent of through international trains such
as Eurostar required the trains to be fitted with
multiple train protection and communication
systems and for the drivers to be trained in the
differing signalling arrangements. The opening
up of markets prompted the EU to propose a
common standard for rail traffic management
and especially signalling, train protection and
radio communications across the EU states which
culminated in the definition and development of
ERTMS including ETCS and GSM-R for track to
train communication.

ETCS provides three primary levels of
implementation together with others to suit
specific needs.

Level 1 is essentially an intermittent update ATP
system associated with existing lineside signals
with the same facilities and restrictions in terms of
‘infill’. The primary track to train communication
media is the balise with infill loops an option.

Level 2 adds a Radio Block Centre (RBC) and
provides continuous update of movement
authority and all associated infrastructure data by
radio. For ETCS the currently specified radio link
is via a continuously open GSM-R call. However,
this is likely to change as train radio moves to
packet switched (4G/LTE or 5G). In the interim
GSM-R may be supplemented with General
Packet Radio Service (GPRS), a 2/3G packet
oriented mobile data standard, to support ATP

in busy areas. It therefore has the functions of a
continuous update ATP system. Lineside signals
can be removed but Level 2 retains trackside
train detection and interlocking functions. Such a
system can provide the basis for Automatic Train
Operation (ATO) and has been implemented on
the Thameslink core through central London.

Level 3, which is not yet fully developed, will
enable train detection to be based on data
received by the RBC from the trains in the area. It
will therefore facilitate the reduction or removal
of lineside train detection equipment and facilitate
the introduction of short virtual blocks or perhaps
moving block. A significant challenge at present

is from variable formation trains (e.g. freight and
locomotive hauled passenger trains) and proving
they are complete at all times.

Other ETCS levels also exist, including those
working with a national ATP system through a
Specific Transmission Module (Level STM), and
Level 0 when an equipped train is operating over
unfitted infrastructure and is thus subject only to
train ceiling speed supervision.

In addition to these primary levels there also exist
options for Limited Supervision which effectively
provides train protection only at critical locations
and thus corresponds to intermittent train
protection. Finally, there are proposals for ETCS
Hybrid Level 3 which provides virtual blocks as
well as conventional train detection, delivering
capacity benefits for trains that are Level 3
enabled, without having to bar the route to Level 2
or unfitted trains. An article about ETCS Level 3
and Hybrid Level 3 was published in the April 2017
issue of IRSE News.

Positive Train Control (PTC)

In North America there is currently a programme
to implement Positive Train Control (PTC) on

all intercity passenger lines, and on freight lines
carrying more than 5 million tons per annum

of inhalable toxic substances. PTC is a form of
ATP in that it requires the prevention of collision
due to passing the end of authority or passing
through misaligned points and speed supervision
to prevent derailment at speed restrictions
whether permanent or temporary. There is no one
mandated solution but there is the requirement of
interoperability between systems as many vehicles
travel over several networks. It also requires
provision of arrangements to protect track
workers. Whilst several systems were proposed
most installations have settled on one of three
systems and all will operate with each other.


--- Page 11 ---
IRSE News | Issue 268 | July/August 2020

In a similar way that CTCS
was created to meet the
needs of China, PTC was
developed to meet the
specific needs of North
America’s railroads. Union
Pacific has been one

of the adopters of this
technology.

Photo Shutterstock/
AngelDiBilio.

20

The PTC system was mandated by law signed in
2008. The original law required the system(s) to
be in place by 2015 but costs and challenges in
implementation mean this date has been pushed
back to the end of 2020. The range of operating
conditions from metro and commuter railways
to long heavy haul freight lines means variety of
solutions is too great to discuss here and could
well be the subject of a separate article.

About the author ...

David joined the S &T department of the
Southern Region of British Rail in 1968 as a
student engineer, with his first appointment
in the telecommunication design office. He
supported the testing and commissioning of
passenger information systems, including the
automatic operation of platform indicators at
London Bridge and Waterloo East and setting
a career profile linked with development

of new systems.

In the 1980s David led a team involved with
train describer development and a new system
to distribute train location information via

the national teleprinter network, followed by
the development of the Integrated Electronic
Control Centre (IECC) including automatic
route setting. He was also involved in improving
electromagnetic compatibility between train
detection and new rolling stock.

Moving to Railtrack in 1994 he was involved
with the development and implementation

of TPWS and the development of ERTMS in
Europe, his work including the implementation
strategy for the UK. Before retirement David
managed the safety assurance process for the
Cambrian ERTMS pilot. David is one of the
contributing editors of IRSE News.

Conclusion

In this article | have attempted to summarise the
scope of train warning and protection systems
and to highlight some of the major issues the
implementation of ATP faces as well as giving an
insight into some of the systems that exist.

“Back to Basics” and the IRSE Exam

We hope our ‘Back to Basics’ series is
interesting to all members, bringing topics
that underpin our profession into focus in a
simply understood, yet comprehensive way,
making continuing professional development
straightforward.

We particularly hope the articles are interesting
to those of you who are new to the industry
and are working to build up your knowledge.
For those considering taking the IRSE exam,
these articles should be particularly relevant
for your studies.

As an example, why not think about how you
would answer this question from the 2019
Module 5 of the exam, based on what you've
learnt from the article?

“Describe a system which provides train
protection for a stop signal or limit of
movement authority. Using a diagram, clearly
describe each of the following:

(i) How the speed of a train approaching a stop
signal or a limit of movement authority is
monitored and controlled;

(ii) How a train is prevented from ignoring a
signal displaying a stop aspect or a limit of
movement authority; and

(iii) The necessary interfaces to the signalling

system including the interlocking and
control system.”
