
--- Page 1 ---
Programming
Document

2023-2025

FOR RAILWAYS

--- Page 2 ---
Manuscript completed in November 2022

Neither the Agency nor any person acting on behalf of the Agency is responsible for the use
which might be made of the following information.

Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2022

PDF     ISBN 978-92-9477-427-9 。” doi:10.2821/018681 — TR-05-22-336-EN-N

Photo credits: © hxdyl (cover), Chalabala (page 13), krumanop (page 16),
APchanel (page 37), Negro Elkha (page 65) / stock.adobe.com

© European Union Agency for Railways, 2022

Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. For any use or reproduction of individual
photos or illustrations, permission must be sought directly from the copyright holders.

--- Page 3 ---
Contents

List of Tables...

List of acronyms.

Foreword by the Executive Directo!
Mission statement..
|. General context ..

Il. Multi-annual programming 2023-2025
| Multi-annual work programme 2023-2026...
| Structure of the multi-annual programme 2023-2025
| Content of the multi-annual programme 2023-2025 ..
| Human and financial resources - outlook for the years 2023 - 2025
| Overview of the past and current situation.......
| Outlook for the years 2023 - 2025 ......
| Resource programming for the years 2023 - 2025 .
| Strategy for achieving efficiency gains...
| Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks.....

Ill. Annual Work programme 2023

| Executive summary

| Activities...

| Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational

barriers to the free movement of people and goods

by rail, assets can be reused throughout Europe.......39

| Strategic statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an

environmentally sustainable multimodal transport

system and will be favoured as a transport mode by

the new generations...                          2 45,

| Strategic statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility

as a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be

ensured, including multi-leg ticketing.....             se 45

| Strategic statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of

transport for its users and workers........             see 47

| Strategic statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to

emergency situations........                       51

| Strategic statement 6 - Railwillbecomeincreasinglyeconomicallycompetitive

as a mode and as a sector...                         seo D2

| Strategic statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and
ERA authorisations will be globally recognised.54

| Strategic statement 8 -The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient

governance of its portfolio of activities in order to

offer the best value for money to citizens and business

in the EU...                                         oe D7

| Strategic statement 9 - The  Agency  will ensure a performant working

environment, based on high-quality motivated

human resources and a collaborative behaviour.......62

a

CONTENTS |1

--- Page 4 ---
@ IV. Annexes ..
| Annex |. Organisational char
| Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity 2023 - 2025
| Annex Ill. Financial Resources 2023-2025...
| T 1. Revenue....
1T2. Expenditure.
| 73. Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations
| Annex lV. Human Resources 2023-2025 - quantitative...
| 4. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff
1T5. Multi-annual staff policy plan 2021-2025.....
| 76. Recruitment forecasts 2023 following retirement/mobility or new
requested posts...
| Annex V. Human Resources 2023-2025 - qualitative
| A. Recruitment (engagement) policy........
| Implementing rules in place...
[B. Appraisal and reclassification / promotion
| Implementing rules in plac
| C. Gender representation
| D. Geographical balance.
le Schooling...
| Annex VI. Environment managemen
| Executive summary...
| ERA in the broader policy context related to environmen
| Environmental impacts of ERA activities
| Accountability ceiling of ERA......
| Environment management achievements of ERA to date
| Environment management initiatives and planned actions for 2023-2025...97
| Current status and plan for certifications and standards
| Annex VIL. Building policy.......
| Current building(s)
| Building project in the planning phase
| Building projects submitted to the European Parliament and the Council.103
| Annex Vill. Privileges and immunities,
| Annex IX. Evaluations
| Terminology...
| Annex X. Strategy for the organisational management and internal
control systems........
| Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution, or service-level agreements .
| Annex XII. Strategy for cooperation with third countries and/or
international organisations.......
| Annex XIII. Procurement plan.......
| Annex XIV. Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-202
| 1. Context...
| 2. What we want to achieve...
| 3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and targets.
| 4. Governance and monitoring arrangements .
| 5. Risk

2| SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 5 ---
aaaauauaaw eo wa

a

oo oo o ow

a

oo op oo oD oO

a

oo ow

a

a

a

oo oo ow

a

a

List of Tables

ble 1 - Human resources 2021-2023...
ble 2 - Revenues 2021-2023
ble 3 - Expenditure 2021-2023
ble 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2023-2025
ble 5 - Human resources - Outlook 2023-2025()

ble 6 - Number of posts for each organisational entity (headcount)

ble 7 - Resource allocation 2022 - 202                                                    68
ble 8 - Overview of revenues.                                                                  69
ble 9 - General revenues...                                                                      69

ble 10 - Overview on additional EU funding.

ble 11 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level
agreements

ble 12 - Expenditure

ble 13 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)...

ble 14 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)
ble 15 - Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriation
ble 16 - Establishment plan posts....

ble 17 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant,
contribution or service-level agreements

ble 18 - Structural service providers...

ble 19 - Interim workers.

ble 20 - Temporary Agents.

ble 21 - Contract Agents..

ble 22 - Seconded National Experts

ble 23 - Recruitment forecast

ble 24 - Implementing rules in place

ble 25 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and
reclassification / promotion...

ble 26 - Reclassification of temporary staff.
ble 27 - Reclassification of contract staff                                                 86
ble 28 - Data on 01/09/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA).         88

ble 29 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle and Senior
management                                                                             189

ble 30 - Data on 01/09/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA).

ble 31 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in the
Agency...

ble 32 - Schooling
ble 33 - Current building(s)

ble 34 - Privileges granted to staff...

ble 35 - Grant, contributions, or service-level agreements

ble 36 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2023

ble 37 - Planned use in 2023 of existing framework contracts

CONTENTS | 3

--- Page 6 ---
4 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

List of acronyms

AD                    Administrator

AMOCS                Acceptable Means of Compliance

AO                       Authorising Officer

AOD                     Authorising Officer by Delegation

ASLP                  Assessment of Safety Level and Performance

AST                   Assistant

ATO                      Automatic Train Operations

BoA                    Board of Appeal

CA                        Contract Agent

CAAR                    Consolidated Annual Activity Report

CCM            Change Control Management

ccs                    Control Command and Signalling

CEOS                    Conditions of Employment of Other Servants

COR                    Common Occurrence Reporting

COVID-19             Coronavirus pandemic (SARS-CoV-2)

CSIs                      Common Safety Indicators

CSMs                    Common Safety Methods

CSTs                     Common Safety Targets

CUI                    Common User Interface

DAC                      Digital Automatic Coupler

DG BUDG           Directorate-General for Budget

DG DIGIT            Directorate-General for Informatics

DG MOVE             Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport

DG NEAR            Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement
Negotiations

Dol                    Declaration of Interest

EASA                 European Union Aviation Safety Agency

EB                     Executive Board

EC                     European Commission

ECA                    European Court of Auditors

ECM                    Entity in Charge of Maintenance

EFTA                    European Free Trade Association

EMSA                   European Maritime Safety Agency

EPSO                  European Personnel Selection Office

ERA                  European Union Agency for Railways

ERADIS               ERA Database on Interoperability and Safety

ERATV                  European Register of Authorised Types of Vehicles

EU Rail JU             Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking

ERSAD                European Railway Stations Accessibility Database

ERTMS               European Rail Traffic Management System

ESG                     Economic Steering Group

--- Page 7 ---
ESO
ETCS
EU
EUAN
EUMedRail
EVR
FFR
FM
FRMCS
FTE
FWC
GSM R
HOF
HQ

HR

IAS
ICC
ICF
ICT

IMS
INEA
loA
IPA
IRSC
Iso
ISS

JNS
JU
KPI
Laas
MaaS
MB
MFF
Ms
MT
NIB
NOBO
NSA
NTRs
NVR
OSJD
Oss
OTIF
PoE

European Standardisation Organisation
European Train Control System

European Union

EU Agencies Network

EuroMed Rail Safety and Interoperability Project
European Vehicle Register

Framework Financial Regulation

Facility Management

Future Railway Mobile Communication System
Full Time Equivalent

Framework Contract

Global System for Mobile Communications (Railway)

Human and Organisational Factors
Headquarters

Human Resources

Internal Audit Service of the Commission
Internal Control Coordinator

Internal Control Framework

Information and Communication Technologies
Infrastructure Manager

Integrated Management System

The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency
Inventory of Assets

Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance
International Railway Safety Council
International Organisation for Standardization
Information Sharing System

Information Technology

Joint Network Secretariat

Joint Undertaking

Key Performance Indicator

Logistic as a Service

Mobility as a Service

Management Board

Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union

Member State of the European Union
Management Team

National Investigation Body

Notified Body

National Safety Authority

National Technical Rules

National Vehicle Register

Organization for Co-operation between Railways
One-Stop Shop

Organisation for International Carriage by Rail
Pool of Experts

LIST OF ACRONYMS | 5

--- Page 8 ---
PM
PO
PR
PRM
RASCOP
RBs
RDD
Reg.
RFC
RINF
RISC
RSD
RSG
RU
SAIT
SAP
SCs
SERA
SLA
SM
SMS
SNE
sO
SP
SPD
SRD
SSC
TA
TA
TAF
TAP
TDG
TSI
UfM
UIC
VA
VKM
WB6
WP
4RP

6 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Project Manager

Project Owner

Public Relation

Persons with reduced mobility

Rail Standardisation Coordination Platform
Recognition Bodies

Reference Document Database

EC Regulation

Rail Freight Corridors

Register of Infrastructures

R:
R:

Research Steering Group

a

ilway Interoperability and Safety Committee

a

ilway Safety Directive

Railway Undertaking

Safety Alert IT Tool

Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027
Safety Culture Survey

Single European Railway Area

Service Level Agreement

Service Manager

Safety Management System
Seconded National Expert

Service Owner

Safety Performance

Single Programming Document
Single Rules Database

Single Safety Certificate

Temporary Agent

Trackside Approvals

Telematics Applications for Freight
Telematics Applications for Passenger Services
Transport of Dangerous Goods
Technical Specifications for Interoperability
Union for the Mediterranean
International Union of Railways
Vehicle Authorisation

Vehicle Keeper Marking

Western Balkans 6

Work Programme

Fourth Railway Package

--- Page 9 ---
Foreword by the
Executive Director

“A sustainable, safe European transport system without frontiers’ not only repre-
sents our Agency's vision, but also reflects the unprecedented challenges that transport
in Europe is facing in the general pursuit of the green mobility goals, while also taking into
account the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a world that faces a resurgence
of violence and war, we witness every day the strategic importance of railways. The trans-
port of critical supplies and of people to safety through railways in Ukraine is a testimony
to the vital importance of rail.

In line with its mandate, the European Union Agency for Railways aims at covering a wide
range of areas of work, involving actions to drive the continuation of the progress with
railway safety and interoperability, together with its role of EU-wide authority for Vehicle
Authorisation, Single Safety Certification, and ERTMS Trackside Approval.

The multi-annual work programme 2023-2025, together with the annual programme
2023 have been planned and drafted following the intervention logic principles, on
the basis of the conclusions of the SPD 2023 Workshop held with the Management Board
in July 2021. Since 2022, the Agency's work has been organised around the agreed set of
seven strategic statements, which projects the Agency's role in relation to its stake-
holders, complemented by two transversal strategic statements, which capture the
Agency's governance and support functions.

In the third year after the transposition by all Member States of the 4** Railway Package
technical pillar, the Agency has gained significant experience in running the tasks re-
lated to the Authority role, as well as in forecasting their volume to the best extent possi-
ble. Indeed, based on an analysis carried out on previous years’ patterns, the Agency can
identify more accurately peak periods for the expected submission of applications, which
are now reflected in its planning. In addition, the Agency has reached a higher maturity
level with the processing of authorisation and certification tasks, which has a potential for
driving a higher efficiency in their delivery.

While the level of ambition and action for the Agency around the defined strategic state-
ments can be very high, as also confirmed by the Management Board expectations during
the SPD 2023 workshop, the Agency has put in place a stronger mechanism of internal ar-
bitration in order to identify priorities and put forward the expected outputs, which can fit
within the available envelope of budget and human resources in order to ensure the best
value for money for the EU citizens. While the Agency’s ambition is to affirm its increasingly
stronger position as the technical reference for the progress with railway interoperability
and safety in the EU, it had been faced with the challenge of deploying a too limited num-
ber of posts as compared to its needs to cope with the simultaneous pressure from the
policy and the authority tasks.

In 2022, the Agency's Management Board adopted the Strengthening Plan prepared
by the Agency in close cooperation with the European Commission. With the document
serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the Agency received a
proposed increase of 12 temporary agent posts (TAs) starting 2023. While the additional
TA allocation is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening Plan (12 TAs pro-
posed out of the 22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed
with the implementation of the Strengthening Plan. A very important challenge is repre-
sented by the fact that the additional TA allocation needs to be fully covered under the
existing budget envelope. To make best use of this TA allocation and considering the very

Josef Doppelbauer

FOREWORD BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | 7,

--- Page 10 ---
8 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

likely high budget pressure related to the indexation of salaries and prices, the Agency is
making a thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these costs in a sustainable manner
until the end of MFF 2021-2027. Several measures are envisaged, such as the time-phased
hiring of the TAs. The budget constraint on the subsidy side is an element to be properly
monitored and managed for the remaining period of the current MFF, especially in the
context of the very challenging and volatile context of salary and price indexation, started
in 2022. The SPD 2023 displays the assignment of these additional posts to the priority
areas identified in the Strengthening Plan and factors a prudent approach by means of
a correction coefficient for late hiring during the year. Additionally, the Agency is making
sustained efforts for a combined response to the resourcing challenge by increasing the
direct utilisation of its resources, both in terms of budget and FTEs.

The Agency keeps a strong commitment to deploying the necessary resources for meet-
ing the legal deadlines for the issuing of VA, SSC and ERTMS Trackside approvals, while also
respecting the deadlines for its safety and interoperability related activities, all of which
contribute to the achievement of the high-level policy objectives of the 4° Railway Pack-
age. The decision time linked to the authority tasks has undeniably a tremendous impact
on the rail stakeholders and on the competitiveness of rail compared with other sectors

The Agency would also like to bring forward interesting and new projects that could
benefit the entire rail sector. We would like to develop a new safety information sharing
tool in the context of the CSM on the assessment of Safety Levels and Safety Performance,
including occurrence reporting. This activity will involve a budgetary need to build the
tool, as well as an ongoing resource need to run the tool, to perform an analysis and
generate learning at European level, which is the ultimate added value. This task is a clear
example of a new legal obligation for which the Agency would need to receive an addi-
tional dedicated budget envelope.

| would like to assure the members of the Management Board that the Agency will con-
tinue to implement the mechanism already put in place for a regular monitoring of the
SPD implementation in terms of outputs delivery and resource consumption, as well as
of the Strengthening Action Plan. The Agency will also continue to improve the set of
budget execution monitoring actions already put in place starting 2021 to make best use
of the available budget appropriations. Furthermore, | will also pay close attention to the
productivity of the Agency, ensuring it remains at a high-level. The Agency will strengthen
its tools to better plan, monitor, and report so as to continuously increase its data-driv-
en, transparent working culture. For instance, the Agency's data-driven dashboard, which
supports all planning and monitoring decisions, is definitely a step in the right direction.
In addition, more efforts will be produced to achieve more with less resources, as well
as ensuring that the processes within the Agency are streamlined to deliver high-quality
results to all our stakeholders.

The Agency will continue to work closely with its stakeholders in order to ensure the suc-
cessful implementation of this challenging multi-annual programme. The activities of the
Agency are crucial for contributing to the achievement of a significant modal shift to rail,
in particular by helping to create and manage a Single European Rail Area, and to contin-
uously improve railway safety in Europe. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to
progress towards a culture of collaboration in the Agency. | would like to thank the ERA
staff and all our stakeholders for their dedication and support, that | am sure will continue
for the years to come, as we will work towards an improved European transport system,
multimodal in nature, with rail as its backbone, eventually benefitting from a fully func-
tioning Single European Railway Area

Josef Doppelbauer

--- Page 11 ---
Mission statement

The updated vision and mission statements of the Agency ("A sustainable, safe European
transport system without frontiers” and “Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe
railway system without frontiers’, respectively) were defined in 2021, following intense
work carried out through the organisational culture change (Better Together) project, with
the explicit aim to have full staff buy-in. The new mission and vision statements of the
Agency better reflect its current position and role, while of course remaining fully in line
with the legal mandate of the Agency.

The Agency contributes to the further development and effective functioning of a Single
European Railway Area without frontiers, by guaranteeing a high level of railway safety
and interoperability, while improving the competitive position of the railway sector, as
envisaged by the Agency Regulation 2016/796. In particular, the Agency shall contribute,
on technical matters, to the implementation of Union legislation by developing a com-
mon approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhancing the level of interoper-
ability on the Union rail system and associated data, with a specific focus on facilitating the
interoperable deployment of ERTMS and on access to data for pushing rail modernisation
and digitalisation. By working in close cooperation with the national authorities acting in
the fields of railway safety and interoperability, the Agency will substantially contribute
to an increased competitiveness of rail and to the seamless cross-border traffic in the EU.
Moreover, through timely delivery of appropriate regulation that reflects the harmonised
and validated solution proposals from the Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking, the Agency
contributes significantly to the coordinated and rapid deployment of such solutions, thus
strengthening the competitiveness of rail in the transport mix. All these elements are
translated into rail becoming more attractive and affordable for passengers and freight,
with the Agency playing an active role in supporting the delivery of the European Green
Deal for the EU citizens and businesses.

Vision statement

To foster its mission, the Agency has identified the following fundamentals (F) and ena-
blers (E):

MISSION STATEMENT | 9

--- Page 12 ---
Mission statement

All our decisions are determined to
serve the common good and the
public interest.

Our collaborative analysis supports
decisions based on objective data.

We are all aware of ERAs mission

and we are committed to support

together the achievement of our
business objectives.

10 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

ERA Fundamentals: Attributes

We acknowledge and take into
account the legacy of the EU rail
system, the complexity of the
interactions between the various
modes of transport and levels of
decision.

We are looking for learning
opportunities internally and with
external partners. We learn from errors
rather than to blame. We see feedback
as a way to improve our performance.

We continuously analyse who are
our direct and indirect stakehold-
ers and their needs. We adopt an
exploratory and impartial attitude to
propose measures for their prob-
lems, needs and opportunities.

Our decisions are made with
impartiality, integrity and objectivity.
Our loyalty to the organisation and
each other is essential to achieve our
mission. We resolve conflicts based
on mutual respect.

We value the diversity of our
team and encourage a supportive
cooperation among all staff without
distinction striving for excellence.

ERA is a good place to work with a
strong sense of belonging, pride and
fulfilment.

We define our priorities and monitor
them in a transparent manner.
We evaluate the effects of all our
actions on staff and stakeholders.
This serves as input to drive future
improvement.

In the allocation of resources, we
primarily consider ERAS priorities
while caring for the wellbeing
off staff and the impact on the
stakeholders.

We adopt an innovative spirit con-

sidering rules as a tool and not an

objective. We reward performance
at all levels.

--- Page 13 ---
Organisational cultural enablers: Attributes

INTERACTING                           FORMALISING                         DISSEMINATING                          REINFORCING

Teamwork                                                   Roles                                                            vats                                                .
«)        and collaboration                                   and responsibilities                                   Communication                                   Leading by example
Collaboration within and across               Roles, responsibilities and authorities            Information is openly shared within              Managers exhibit behaviours that
organisations is nurtured.                       are understood and accepted.                       and across organisations.                                set the standard.

Management intervention

GD)    Interpersonal values          @)   Organisational design          ©) Competence management

Trust, respect and openness perme-             Organisational structures support              Competence management ensures              Managers ensure that incentives,

ate the organisation and character-               the achievement of mission and                   a knowledgeable workforce.                 sanctions and recognition reinforce
ise inter-organisational relationships                    organisational excellence.                                                                                      behaviours and outcomes that
at all levels.                                                                                                                                                          support the achievement of mission

and organisational excellence.

@)    Regulatory relationships                @)     Organisational systems                @)              Soft skills                                              HOF expertise
Healthy regulatory relationships exist            Processes, tools and documentation              Leadership and non-technical skills               Human and organisational factors,
and ensure that the accountability               support the achievement of mission                   are systematically developed.                    including frontline experience, are
remains with the Agency                      and organisational excellence.                                                                         systematically considered during

design and change.

MISSION STATEMENT | 11

--- Page 14 ---
Through its mission and actions, the Agency is committed to contribute to the EC Political
guidelines:

™ a European Green Deal

™ an economy that works for people
™ a Europe fit for the digital age

™ a stronger Europe in the world

The Agency will support the EC agenda to ensure sustainable, safe, affordable, and acces-
sible transport and to strengthen railways’ role in the transport mix, in line with its mission
and mandate.

12 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 15 ---
|. General context


--- Page 16 ---
14| SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Transport is an essential part of the European integration, especially given its contribution
to the functioning of the free movement of services, goods, and people. Transport also
represents around 5% of the EU GDP and directly employs around 10 million workers(’),
therefore representing an important sector for society at large. EU transport policies have
been developed according to the key principles of safety, sustainability, resilience, connec-
tivity, and efficiency.

Through its long-term vision for the transport sector and European society, the European
Commission published in 2020 the Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy with a detailed
action plan of 82 initiatives. With this strategy, the Commission presents how the EU trans-
port system will achieve its needed green and digital transformation and become more
resilient. As outlined in the European Green Deal, the result will be a 90% cut in carbon
emissions by 2050. Regarding the rail sector, the following targets have been set:

®@ Traffic on high-speed rail will double by 2030
®@ Rail freight traffic will increase by 50% by 2030 and double by 2050

™ By 2030, rail and waterborne-based intermodal transport will be able to compete
on equal footing with road-only transport in the EU

The European Union Agency for Railways will support the European Commission, in line
with its accountability ceiling, in achieving these goals, in particular through the further
development and effective functioning of a Single European Railway Area without fron-
tiers.

The 2023-2025 programming period for the Agency involves two different types of activ-
ities:

| The policy tasks contributing to the implementation of Union legislation by de-
veloping a common approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhanc-
ing the level of interoperability on the Union rail system, taking into account the
policy priorities identified in the Strengthening Plan 2023-2027, as endorsed by
the Agency's Management Board in 2022.

| The full-fledged performance of the Agency’s tasks as EU-wide authority for
safety certification, vehicle authorisation and ERTMS trackside approval, along with
other tasks in the field of railway safety and interoperability as foreseen in the Tech-
nical Pillar of the Fourth Railway Package.

The Agency has been implementing an innovative structure to its work programme, which
responds to the intervention logic requirements, in line with the guidelines provided by
the Network of EU Agencies. It also strives to increase its efficiency in delivering the out-
comes and impacts expected by EU citizens. In light of the above, the work programme of
the Agency (in its multi-annual and annual planning) is organised around seven strategic
statements, which project the Agency's role in relation to its stakeholders, complement-
ed by two transversal strategic statements, which capture the Agency's governance and
support functions. These strategic statements were adopted by the MB for SPD 2022-2024
and are extremely important, as they show the direction of travel on which the Agency
plans to embark in order to make railways work better for society, subject to its remit and
accountability ceiling. The concrete Agency work, represented by projects and services
with concrete outputs, is organised by grouping the projects and services which together
can contribute to the outcomes and impacts stated in a particular strategic statement.

In SPD 2023, the Agency has further implemented the intervention logic. While for the
previous years the multiannual section was presented mainly with overarching objectives
to achieve, the planning will now include more detailed FTEs and budget figures. This
additional level of granularity will provide more reliable data to monitor and a coherent
stability for the Agency. Of course, the Agency will remain flexible and redeploy resources

(}) _https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_20_2350


--- Page 17 ---
if needed, but the new approach provides a roadmap for all stakeholders regarding the
areas on which the Agency will focus in the next three years.

The current SPD 2023 draft proposes the implementation of the objectives detailed in
the Strengthening Plan by increasing the level of ambition for specific priority areas with
the Agency's intention to make best use of the 12 additional TAs for this purpose, while
tackling the challenge of embedding those additional resources in the existing budget
envelope. Several measures are envisaged, such as the time-phased hiring of the TAs.

The SPD 2023 draft budget and related establishment plan have been developed taking
into account the following elements:

= The EC draft budget for 2023, proposing 12 additional TAs to the Agency, in line
with the policy priorities identified in the Strengthening Plan, translated into
a dedicated implementation document - the Strengthening Action Plan (SAP)
2023-2027, which represents an anchor for the current and the subsequent
SPDs;

= Acautious approach for embedding the 12 TAs in the work allocation for 2023
by means of applying a correction coefficient for late/phased hiring during
the year;

= The exceptional salary indexation foreseen for 2022 and 2023, including the
additional funding provided by the European Commission for 2023 to tackle
partially this matter;

= Arefined estimate of the fees and charges evolution, including an estimate on
the volume of work, on one hand, and the indexation of the hourly rate, on the
other hand, in line with the provisions of the Implementing Regulation.

When it comes to the resources, 2023 also marks the first full year where the updated
hourly rate (from €130 to €239) will be applied by the Agency. In addition to recovering
the direct costs linked to the processing of the OSS applications, the Agency also calcu-
lates and recovers a pro rata share of the costs for support activities/costs linked to the fees
and charges activities. In particular for 2023, the Agency forecast of revenues from the fees
and charges also envisages an assumption on the indexation, as per the provisions from
the Implementing Regulation in force

The Agency will pay significant attention to a regular monitoring of the SPD implemen-
tation in terms of outputs, resource consumption and revenues, which can allow for agile
responses and possible adaptation of its work programme. The Agency will continue to
work together with the pool of experts for the mutual benefit of the cooperation between
the Agency and the NSAs. This cooperation may also help the Agency to tackle capacity
shortages, as well as language skills gaps. In addition, the Agency will strive for contin-
uously improving its efficiency in delivering the expected outputs, as well as its overall
performance in contributing to the expected outcomes and impacts.

GENERAL CONTEXT | 15

--- Page 18 ---

--- Page 19 ---
Multi-annual work programme 2023-2025

Structure of the multi-annual programme 2023-2025

The structure of the Agency's multi-annual work programme is organised according to 9
strategic statements:

| Strategic Statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational
barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail, assets can be reused
throughout Europe.

| Strategic Statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an envi-
ronmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will be favoured as a
transport mode by the new generations.

| Strategic Statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as
a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including multi-leg tick-
eting

| Strategic Statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of
transport for its users and workers.

| Strategic Statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergen-
cy situations.

| Strategic Statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive
as a mode and as a sector.

| Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA
authorisations will be globally recognised.

| Strategic Statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient gov-
ernance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the best value for money to
citizens and business in the EU

| Strategic Statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performant working environ-
ment, based on high quality motivated resources and a collaborative behaviour.

It should be noted that these strategic statements are long-term objectives of the Agency,
and as such it is not foreseen that they will all be achieved by 2025.

In addition, it should be noted that the arbitration exercise for the year 2023 was further
developed and intensified. Indeed, it followed the key principles and areas of priorities de-
tailed in the endorsed Strengthening Plan and further detailed as part of SAP 2023-2027.
In addition, the Agency prioritised through the identification of the anticipated added
value of activities, as well as their potential contribution towards the desired outcomes.
The Agency followed a data-driven approach, looking at previous year's resource con-
sumption, as well as the deliverables description for each project / service.

Content of the multi-annual programme 2023-2025

For its 2023-2025 work programme, the Agency takes into account the possible ways of
balancing the demand for its authority work on one hand and the ambition level for the
priority areas detailed in the Strengthening Plan, on the other hand. The authorisations,
certificates and approvals issued by the Agency have a direct impact on the functioning
of the rail sector and bring much added value in terms of safety and interoperability. In
addition, the strategic role in policy development, research and innovation, and advice
provided by the Agency is recognised as highly important and should continue to be
strengthened. It is equally important to highlight the possible role of the Agency to mon-
itor and support the adequate implementation of the existing legal framework through

MULTI-FANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 17

--- Page 20 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

a harmonised level of maturity both at the levels of operators and national authorities.
To make its operations always more efficient and effective, the Agency will continue to
implement to its full extent the continuous improvement approach to its project man-
agement and make sure that its resources are deployed in those activities where it can
have the highest impact and added value for the railway sector and the EU citizens. The
Agency will continue to develop its workstream on cybersecurity and will liaise with ENISA
to explore future scope for cooperation.

The breakdown of FTE and budget distribution by Strategic Statement over the 2022-2025
period are shown in the following charts.

Figure 1: FTE distribution

2025

2024

2023

2022

0                 20                40                 60                80                100
是 Stst1    I Stst2&3     0 stst4     ~ Stst5    有Stst6 §Stst7 ff Ststs    > Stst9

Figure 2: Budget distribution by Strategic Statement (€)

2025
2024

2023

a
2022  —

0                              1000 000                        2000 000                        3.000 000                        4000 000
J Stst1 。 f Stst2&3     1) Stst4    | StstS ESstst6 = J Stst7 目Stst8    ) Stst9

18 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 21 ---
Resource constraints experienced in 2021, and partially in 2022, under this strategic state-
ment, were a serious challenge to the Agency's raison détre. Nevertheless, despite the
difficult context, the Agency has consolidated its position as European authority for rail
thanks to its excellent reputation, both in technical terms and in the customer service
approach.

In the field of Railway Interoperability, the Agency has identified 6 intermediate outcomes
that it can actively influence through its portfolio of TSIs, ERTMS, National rules, and Reg-
isters services. They are essential components, which will lead to the achievement of the
strategic statement. The already identified intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. ERTMS is fully implemented on rolling stock by all Railway Undertakings
2. ERTMS is fully implemented on railway infrastructure by all Infrastructure Managers

3. All railway rolling stock is TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) compliant
by all RUs across the EU. (exc. TAP/TAF & OPE)

4. All railway infrastructure is TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) compli-
ant by all IMs across the EU

5. National rules (rolling stock & fixed installation) are harmonised across the EU

6. All relevant railway-related data is shared in an open and transparent way so that it
is utilisable and useful for the sector

Of course, this list will continue to be elaborated in the future to include other intermedi-
ate outcomes, as the Agency continues to pursue its full implementation of the interven-
tion logic.

From the perspective of its position of authority for delivering vehicle authorisations, sin-
gle safety certificates and ERTMS trackside approvals, the Agency will continue in the pe-
riod 2023-2025 to drive further the harmonisation towards the Single European Railway
Area, ensuring the path towards technical and operational interoperability. The Agency's
input to the work on the System Pillar will support harmonisation.

The stability of the TSls, together with a successful cleaning up of the national rules are the
foundation of seamless operations across Europe and for an increasingly effective
authority function, reinforcing the advantage of having a European mindset in the EU
railway system. The year 2023 will mark the completion of the cleaning up exercise of
the national technical, safety, operational rules as well as rules on fixed installations and
ERTMS. This cleaning-up is an important step towards delivering a truly harmonised EU
rail system. The Agency will continue to focus on the removal of redundant national rules
(operational and technical), the harmonisation of the remaining rules and the develop-
ment of AMOCs. Therefore, the agency plans, in line with the priorities identified in the
Strengthening Plan, to:

™@ Finalise the VA NRs cleaning-up in 2022, within the framework of unique authoriza-
tion for coaches, the inclusion of remaining cleaned VA NRs into the TSIs is planned,

® Finalise the NSR cleaning-up in 2022 and to build activities from 2023 onwards on
the newly to be developed "NSR assessment framework".

Moreover, in 2023, the Agency and the EC are putting together a practical implementa-
tion plan to address the acknowledged need for harmonisation in assessing and cleaning
all the categories of rules (vehicle, Fl, safety/operational. Once agreed, the milestones of
this plan will be reflected in an update of the indicators for SAP 2023-2027 and SPD 2024,
respectively.

The Agency will also continue to deliver its role as sole body responsible for issuing mul-
ti-Member-State authorisations, certifications, and approvals. The Agency will continue
performing its tasks in full partnership with the NSAs. In addition, the links between au-
thorisation, certifications, and approvals by the Agency and the supervision by the NSAs
will be strengthened.

Strategic Statement 1

Ther    Ino long

technical and operatio
to the fre
and

MULTI-FANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 19

--- Page 22 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

20 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

The lessons learnt through the issuing of VAs, ERTMS trackside approvals and from the
monitoring of NoBos will be used to capture continuous improvement opportunities for
the technical specifications and to the authorization procedures. The experience in issuing
safety certificates will be used to better steer the safety related policy making, so railway
safety will never be used again as a barrier. More specifically, the work on NoBo monitoring
will be reinforced in 2023, with additional resources dedicated to this activity, in line with
the direction given in the Strengthening Plan.

Seamless operations also mean exchanging data, a process on which the Agency will con-
tinue to contribute by facilitating the data exchange for, among various purposes, author-
ization, registration, and route compatibility checks, based on the linked data approach.
In relation to future developments of the Agency's role and of the railway system, the
Agency will continue to identify new needs and related research matters.

The Agency will also assess mature innovation products, with a clear potential for market
uptake.

In this context, the Agency will focus on exploring emerging needs such as:

®™ Better coordination of traffic management EU-wide, including, but not limited to,
planning, capacity management, and emergency responses

™ Increased and improved offer for passengers and freight in the railway sector

® Improved operations through the adoption of automatic translation systems and
training for operators in their native language. This would enhance the railway sys-
tems resilience to interoperability issues and increase cross-border traffic.

The objective is to make the railway system more resilient to interoperability issues and
increase the cross-border traffic.

Related to interoperability, after its further evolutions introduced via the TS! 2022 pack-
age revision (i.e., ATO, FRMCS optimisation of braking curves, digital coupling, transitions,
combined transport, etc) the Agency will ensure stability in the established technical re-
quirements including ERTMS. After the introduction of FRMCS readiness in CCS TS! 2022,
the focus for 2023-2025 will be on the production of the full set of specifications for FRMCS.
The roadmap for the introduction of these specifications in the CCS TSI will be set-up. For
the further evolution of the on-board modularity and the advanced train positioning we
will take the inputs from System Pillar in our CCM process to prepare for the update of the
CCS TSI accordingly.

In addition, a further harmonisation through TSls will focus on telematics, security aspects,
national rules harmonisation and innovations such as digital automatic couplers (DAC) fa-
cilitating the shunting of freight wagons, new materials, new on-board sources of energy
based on the results provided by the System Pillar work.

The service ‘Management of Innovation and long-term evolution of the Agency’, intro-
duced in 2021, will continue to steer the research & innovation policy of the Agency and
its future development. It will also be in charge of coordinating the Agency's input to the
work on the System Pillar. The Agency will ensure technical assistance to the Commission,
as guardian of interoperability and safety, and as system authority for ERTMS & telematics.
This will boost harmonisation of operations, subsystems, and components, leaving the
practical aspects to the industry, assuming an appropriate level of oversight. In parallel,
the Agency will continue to identify related research needs and assess mature innovation
products, with a clear potential for market uptake, in order to reflect them into the techni-
cal specifications. This work will however be carried out at a slower pace, due to budgetary
constraints.


--- Page 23 ---
Key Performance Indicators

#                                   Key Performance Indicator                                                       Target

1 | National Rules                                                                          100% cleaned and published in SRD
2 | Dissemination on TSls                                                                          4 workshops organised

3 | CCSTSsI- Maintenance and operational activities for CCS Framework               Publication of CCS TSI Application

guide/ESC-RSC tests
4 | No. of reports for NoBos audit/inspection sent to NoBos for comments after | At least 9 reports
the onsite visit
5 | Registers related service requests by customers processed (reply provided to | Within 10 working days, as determined
customer)                                                                                         in the service level agreement

6 | Issuing Approvals - Proportion of decisions taken according to the legal           100%

framework deadlines

7 | Issuing Vehicle Authorisation, including ERTMS on-board assessments -           100%
Proportion of decisions taken according to the legal framework deadlines (for
completeness and assessment phases)

#                                                                   Outcome indicators

1 | Harmonisation and reduction of Member-State specific National rules (both national safety rules and national
technical rules) via a Single Rules Database.

Number of international passenger/freight trains at selected border stations (interoperability reports)
Number of hours spent at cross-border operations

ERTMS trackside deployment in the EU

Vehicles equipped with ERTMs in the EU

Number of open type 3 issues when issuing VA and TA/ overall number of certificates issued

N AU BR WN

Number of VA and TA issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued

8 | Number of data consumption of registers

Resource envelope

FTEs                      77.63                            82.02                            80.42

Budget(?)                        € 2,246,463                                     € 2,300,621                                      € 2,387,211

名This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on ERTMS TA and Vehicle authorisa-
tions.

MULTI-ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 21

--- Page 24 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

Strategic Statement 2 &3

2 Rail
that sur      Vel
multimo

generation

3 Rail tr

22 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

The Agency is playing a pivotal role in supporting the transformation of the European
transport system towards decarbonised, interoperable and safe transport modes based
on multi-modal integration (Maas).

In 2022, the Agency provided substantial inputs to the Green Deal deliverables and played
a key role for driving the data and digitalisation agenda for railways, based on the linked
data pilots and the revision of TAP/TAF TSI. Those elements are particularly relevant in a
multi-modal context as they enable that integration in terms of ticketing and timetables
which has been preventing the effective development of rail as the backbone of a mul-
ti-modal and international transport.

The Agency has identified for this Strategic Statement two intermediate outcomes, which
will support the achievement of the overarching statement. There are the following ones:

1. TAP is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, ticket vendors), it is ac-
tually used as the main channel of information exchange and the ticketing is inte-
grated in the multimodal environment with other transport modes

2. TAF is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, WKs, CTOs) and it is actu-
ally used as the main channel of information exchange

Of course, TAF and TAP TSI will also be in scope for some intermediate outcomes already
identified under strategic statement 1. Additional intermediate outcomes will be identi-
fied in the future to further implement the intervention logic within the Agency.

For the period 2023-2025, the Agency will still be a top player in ensuring the right frame-
work for the data and information exchange related to assets and services (includ-
ing ticketing data), based on linked data, universal data identifiers and more and better
data exchanged between operators and customers. This will ensure a seamless exchange
of data with other modes of transport, thus allowing the customers to benefit from a
comprehensive logistics chain or the mobility-as-a-service, respectively. In addition, the
Agency has triggered its path to convert the EU Railway Registers in building blocks within
the European Common Mobility Data Space (item 71). In 2020-2022, the Agency trans-
formed and linked together the Register of EU railway infrastructure (RINF) dataset and
the European Type of Vehicle (ERATV partly) dataset into a Knowledge graph (~26 million
triples), making this data interoperable, findable, and providing semantically enriched
machine and human query services. The Agency has followed the Directive 2019/1024 on
open data, the EU data strategy, the Data Act -FAIR principles, the principle of technology
neutrality- and the EU policy on reference data. Moreover, the Agency is a publisher in the
open data portal, with 13 datasets published. The data and digitalization roadmap 2021-
2024 proposes to add gradually new datasets (in-house data) to this knowledge graph
as well as links to external datasets to facilitate multimodal data exchange. Currently, the
Agency is developing the strategic direction for linked data in relation to RINF under stra-
tegic statement 8, while exploring the mainstreaming of this approach to other registers
and databases. Once moved from a strategic development concept to a mainstreamed
approach, this stream of work will be covered under strategic statement 2 and 3. In addi-
tion, the TAF TSI will provide the data communication requirements for the transparent
and efficient traffic management and train operations system of the future including also
(i) first and last mile logistic segments involving intermodal actors (operators, terminals)
and (ii) linkage to other modes of transport (road, waterborne). This will also contain the
enhanced simple and smart tracking of trains, wagons and consignments. The same TSI
will also include additional requirements for the setting up of LaaS starting from consign-
ment order (intermodal compliant), train operation preparation and ending in well-pre-
dicted / efficient delivery of trains, wagons and consignments to the business partners.

Concerning the environmental sustainability of the railway system, the Agency will con-
tinue to deliver support and assistance to the EC for the Green Deal, as well as for the co-
ordination of transport of dangerous goods by rail, recognising that in many cases
the Commission has the lead role.

--- Page 25 ---
If additional budget and resources become available in 2023, these would allow the
Agency to work on the identification of bottlenecks, opportunities, and areas for
improvement to foster a coordinated traffic management at EU level. All this is a
pre-condition to further increase the reliability and timeliness of railway services. Other
emerging areas in which the Agency could play an active role include the definition of
the technical specifications for hubs, terminals, nodes for intermodal shifts, the
specifications for level crossings, and combined transport.

Key Performance Indicators

EE                                 Key Performance Indicator                                                       Target
1 | Monitoring of the TAP/TAF TSI implementation - progress report on Year -1                               Q2

| + |                                                                    itcome      icators

1 | The level of implementation of TAF and TAP TSI as monitored through the annual “Safety and Interoperability Pro-
gress Report”

2 | Evolution in share of rail (both passenger and freight) in the EU's transport market compared to air, road or maritime
transport

3 | GHG emission from rail compared with other transport modes (shares %)

Resource envelope

FTEs                                3.56                                           3.56                                          3.56

Budget                           € 93,688                                        € 48,688                                        € 48,688

MULTI-FANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 23

--- Page 26 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

Strategic Statement 4

ure m¢

and

24 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

In the field of Railway Safety, the Agency has identified 3 categories of intermediate out-
comes that it can actively influence through its portfolio of safety related projects and
services and that are essential pre-conditions to achieve the strategic statement 4. The
identified intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. All railway operators - IM, RU, ECM - understand and accept their responsibility and
actively implement an SMS to control the risks of operational activities;

2. An increased performance of and trust in the different safety related control levels in
the system - ERA, MS, NSA, ASBO, ECM CB, accreditation, recognition, NIB;

3. Safety and safety management/performance related data is shared in an open and
transparent way;

The Agency can influence the positive progress towards the achievement of these out-
comes by intervening in the following 5 ways:

® Building knowledge: to build ERA/sector knowledge on how to achieve the de-
sired outcome;

® Regulating: providing the input to regulate via EU legislation the desired out-
comes;

四 Sharing knowledge: to share knowledge on how to achieve the desired out-
comes;

® Monitoring: to monitor the actual status of achieving the desired outcomes and
understanding the difficulties the sector is encountering;

® Reinforcing: to enforce/reinforce the actual status of achieving the desired out-
comes.

Up until now the Agency has invested most of its efforts in building knowledge and pro-
viding the input for regulating, while not sufficiently supporting the railway sector in the
actual implementation of the legislative framework. The following years of the Agency’s
work programme will focus more on the actual implementation by supporting the sector
through knowledge sharing, by better understanding the issues the sector is facing when
implementing the legislative framework, by reinforcing the expected outcome where
possible and enforcing it where necessary. Within this framework of intermediate out-
comes and interventions for statement 4 the Agency will continue to focus on:

1. Supporting Member States in developing, adopting and repealing national legis-
lation and strengthening NSAs and NIBs capacity, in line with principles and legal
acts promoted by the EU. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/ reinforcing)

2. Enhancing railway safety through positive safety culture and integration of
human and organisational factors and on the harmonisation of the safety
approach, partly through SSC applications. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/
reinforcing)

3. Monitoring of NSAs and the follow-up of issues emerged during the 1st cycle of
audits (monitoring / reinforcing)

4. Learning lessons through the issuing of SSCs, the monitoring of NSAs, the review
of NIB accident investigation reports and the information exchanged during
NSA and NIB meetings and meetings organised with the AsBos, this will be used to
continuously improve the common safety methods, as well as the safety certifica-
tion procedures (knowledge building/ sharing knowledge / monitoring)

5. Strengthening the culture of risk management to identify risks and mitigating
measures but also opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations preserv-
ing the safety level. This shall cover well-known operational scenarios, including
interfaces with other transport modes, and the adoption of emerging technology
and related relevant risks (e.g. cyber security, etc.). (knowledge building/ sharing
knowledge)

--- Page 27 ---
6.Improving the structure, quality and availability of safety relevant data while
making sure it is shared in an open and transparent way among all railway actors.
(knowledge building/ monitoring).

If more resources are made available, the capacity of the Agency to monitor and re-en-
force the adequate functioning of the different safety control layers in the system could be
enhanced as well as the possibility of the Agency to support the stakeholders, at all levels,
for adequately implementing the existing framework.

Key Performance Indicators

Key Performance Indicator                                                       Target
1 | No. of audit reports sent to NSA for comments after the onsite visit                            At least 6
2 | Feedback to NIBs provided on request                                                              100%
3 | Issuing Single Safety Certificates - Proportion of decisions taken accord-                 100%
ing to the legal framework deadlines (for completeness and assessment
phases)

Outcome indicator

Number of open type 3 issues when issuing SSC’s/ overall number of certificates issued
Number of SSC’s issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of appeals made by operators in a year linked to SSC certification/ average number of SSC's issued per
year

4 | Percentage of NSA's audited with at least 1 deficiency (focused on deficiencies still open from the 1st cycle). Note:
this is a rolling indicator

5       NSA Monitoring: number of deficiencies still open (follow-up of the 1st cycle) vs number of deficiencies of the Ist
cycle (rolling indicator) Note: this is a rolling indicator

6      Number of peer reviewed NIB's

Number of volunteering NIBs to participate in the NIB peer review/ total number of NIBs (on a yearly basis)

Resource envelope

FTEs                                         27,60                                   29.23                                   28.03

Budget(*)                      € 868,353                     € 878,022                    € 875,722

(°) This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on SSC.

MULTI-ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 25

--- Page 28 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

The Agency is currently reviewing the strategic statement 5, especially as no projects has
Strategic Statement 5                      been identified yet for the next three years.
Key Performance Indicators

9             9                   Key Performance Indicator                                   Target
situations                           1 | No KPI foreseen                                         p.m.

加                                                 come indicators

1 | No outcome indicator foreseen

Resource envelope

Budget                           €0                            €0                            €0

26 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 29 ---
The Agency will endeavour to make sure that the rules and system specifications are
smart, proportionate and contribute to the competitiveness of the industry. It will also
make sure that the SSC, VA, and ERTMS TA processes are cost and time efficient, fostering
the entrance of new operators in the market.

As presented in previous strategic statements, the agency aims at evaluating the eco-
nomic impact of the vehicle authorisation and issuing of single safety certificate
processes on the railway sector, the impact of the TSIs as a package, of market open-
ing and competition and of modular interchangeability in the ERTMS system spec-
ifications. The Agency will assess interoperability and safety improvements from a
cost-effectiveness perspective. The results of the assessments will be used to propose
recommendations for improving the legal texts, as well as any non-regulatory instruments,
in the spirit of the Better Regulation principles. Building on the IA work in the past years,
particular attention will be given within the ESG on evaluating the IA practice and stake-
holder feedback on the IAs. In addition, the Management Board, NSA and NRB networks
will be regularly informed about the return of experience, lessons learnt and priorities for
the IA practice. Furthermore, the important work on women in transport, which should
lead to the strengthening of women’s employment and equal opportunities for women
and men in the transport sector will be pursued. Indeed, many studies have shown that
gender parity in the workforce increases the productivity and the cohesion of staff. In addi-
tion, gender parity increases diversity of views, which in itself brings innovative solutions.

Key Performance Indicators

Key Performance Indicator

1 | Number of impact assessments deliv- | Number of IAs corresponds to the num-
ered for recommendations and opin- | ber recommendations delivered / num-
ions                                             ber of opinions issued

+ |                                           Outcome indicators

Evolution in rail traffic in absolute terms

Proportion of rail vs road and air transport, for passenger and freight rail in the EU

1

2

3       Number of pax-km per passenger train-km
4      Number of tonne-km per freight train-km
5

Average ERTMS costs (trackside and on-board

Resource envelope

FTEs                                       3.07                                  3.09                                  3.09

Budget                      € 30,400                   € 30,400                   € 30,400

Strategic Statement 6

MULTI-FANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 27

--- Page 30 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

Strategic Statement 7

The E

28 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

One of the objectives of the Agency is to become a global reference in the railway domain
for technical matters and build its reputation of a solid, resilient and trustworthy organiza-
tion. To achieve that, the Agency will work on multiple fronts. It will support the EC in de-
signing, implementing and monitoring the EU transport foreign policy. The Agency will
also contribute to international standardization by strengthening its cooperation with
European and international standardization organizations. The Agency will also
disseminate its technical excellency via the ERA Academy, its dissemination and training
service. Furthermore, the Agency will focus on the EC priorities in terms of technical
and geographical areas, and will also provide the requested analyses and support.
the Agency will also finalise its work on the IPA project in 2023.

Focussing on training and dissemination, in 2023-2025, the Agency will further build the
ERA Academy and its e-learning platform. The first being the container of training initi-
atives built with academia, while the second will be instrumental in disseminating the
material developed in our policy work to our partners and stakeholders. This is particularly
true in the field of rail safety to enhance the maturity of operators and the different control
levels in adequately taking up their responsibilities and fulfilling their activities under the
existing safety regulatory framework. In addition, the Agency will propose webinars on a
variety of subjects under the expertise of the Agency and will continue to organise EU-
wide railway events.

If more resources would become available, the Agency could strengthen its international
presence in the established cooperation formats and in markets outside the EU by supply-
ing the industry with additional training services, focusing also on vocational training to
support the harmonisation of operational practices. This will also allow the Agency to be
instrumental in supporting third countries to develop safe, efficient, and reliable railways,
according to established European standards. This would increase the Agency's global
recognition in the field and support the dissemination of the European approach.

Finally, the Agency will continue supporting the NSA, NIB and NRB Networks and facilitat-
ing interfaces between them, the European Commission, and the Agency where appro-
priate.

Key Performance Indicators

                Key Performance Indicator

1     Events and webinars, dissemination activities            Delivering ERA events

according to the yearly Com-

munication & Dissemination
plan

Outcome indicator

1       Number of participants in ERA training sessions and other dissemination events

Resource envelope

FTEs                   9.94                 8.95                 8.95

Budget                        € 625,246                     € 672,746                     € 672,746


--- Page 31 ---
In order to achieve the strategic statement 8, the Agency has identifed 7 intermediate
outcomes that it will actively work towards in the following years through the related
portfolio of projects and services:

1. Digitalisation of the Agency (as strategic preparation work)

= Single source of data for internal access

= Single source of data for external access

= Data is only introduced once

= Data is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable & Reusable)

2. Staff understand the mission and vision of the Agency, internalise it and have the
flexibility, the ownership/ autonomy with their activities, and a clear mutual un-
derstanding of their roles and responsibilities to actively contribute to the strategic
direction of the Agency

3. The Agency has a sound and agile governance frarmework, whose processes and
administration favour clarity, efficiency and decision making at the right level.

4. The SPD process steers the Agency’ strategy and multi-annual work programme de-
velopment in an integrated, evidence-based, and coordinated manner as well as
the monitoring of its effectiveness. This can be achieved through interfacing with
the internal stakeholders owning the strategies and the external stakeholders (EC,
EB strategic calendar, etc).

5. SPD is the single reference (for internal and external stakeholders) for all critical tac-
tical information providing the overarching view on the implementation of the
projects and services.

6. The Agency is a learning, ethical, legally complying organisation where the deci-
sion-making, the strong financial control, the monitoring and reporting processes
give the ED the assurance of best value for money

As far as the digitalisation aspect is concerned, the Agency has acknowledged its
importance to ensure a sustainable development of railways in Europe as a competitive
mode of transport and has the ambition to become a reference for facilitating the mul-
ti-modal data exchange and queries, based on the data-centric architecture and the
linked data technology. The Agency aims at exploiting the potential of digitalization of
the sector to the largest extent in its operations and administration. This is the reason
for the new internal I&T strategy and the interoperable data roadmap. This will boost the
performance level of internal processes and will allow to have modern and simple systems
such as OSS, Registers, etc. fully functioning according to schedule and completely inter-
operable with commercial software solutions currently adopted by the railway industry
to support the operators in their daily business. Still referring to Operations, the efficiency
gains resulting from automation of internal processes will increase the number of resourc-
es allocated to the policy making activities.

The other intermediate outcomes will be achieved also through the optimization of
the ERA planning, monitoring and reporting capabilities, to enhance the Agency's
programme, project, and service management framework together with the Single Pro-
gramming document and the Consolidated Annual Activity Report. This will lead to an
allocation of resources based on impact and intended outcome, fostering the added val-
ue created for the railway sector and an overall better performance of the Agency. An
Action Plan for the Strengthening Plan 2023-2027 is put in place, in close link to the SPD
implementation and monitoring. With ERAs organizational culture change project ‘Better
together at ERA’ the Agency will continue to invest resources and time to boost and refine
the work environment and cooperation between staff members.

Through its communication activities, the Agency will design and implement actions to
increase ERA awareness of the railway system and the dynamics of the railway industry.
Moreover, the Agency will develop campaigns to provide EU citizens with relevant infor-
mation and data demonstrating the added value brought by the Agency to society.

Strategic Statement 8

citizens and business in the EU

MULTI-FANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 29

--- Page 32 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicator
% Of the annual appropriations committed
% Execution of carry over payment appropriations
% Payments made by contractual deadline
% Increase of the output achievement rate compared to the previous year
Adoption of the SPD and CAAR

#
1
2
3
4
5

6 | Implementation of the Strengthening Action Plan

Adopted on time, complying

Implemented following

98%
>95%
95%
210%

with legal deadlines

the SAP deadlines

Outcome indicators

1 | Budget discipline and adequacy
2 | Data is FAIR, measured on a scale

FTEs                                          30.42

Budget                       € 357,800

30.42
€ 431,300

Resource envelope

29.32
€ 431,300

30 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 33 ---
Clause 4 of the ERA Policy states that “People are our most valuable resource’ Coherently,
the Agency will implement the new HR strategy 2023-2027, offering clear and transparent                         Strategic Statement 9
career paths to staff members, allocate enough resources to make sure that good perfor-
mance and success stories are adequately rewarded, and that skills and competencies are
appropriate for the Agency mission and kept up to date. Internal roles are not only defined
but also accompanied by a proper competency management system and communicated
externally so that interfaces are clear to the stakeholders. The Agency also acknowledges
the added value of diversity by implementing solutions to improve the gender balance in
management and operational roles and to widen the number of nationalities employed.

Key Performance Indicators

Key Performance Indicator

1                      % Implementation of the establishment plan                                         >98%
2                  % Implementation of the external personnel( plan                                      >98%
3                                       Staff turnover                                                     Less than 5%
4                              % Availability of the core ICT systems                                                      97%
5       Service Desk users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent” rate                   >70%

Outcome indicators

1      Staff satisfaction (evaluated through the Staff Engagement Survey or own survey with the same scope and ques-
tions)()

2 | Highly trained staff(9 (checked through dimensions such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS.
Project, training budget, number of PIT requests)

3 | HR strategy action plan progress
4 | Overtime (% worked above the 40 hours/week on a monthly basis, over 110%)
5 | Cloud migration - infrastructure migrated to the cloud

6 | ICT strategy action plan progress

Resource envelope

FTEs                                         26.46                                   26.46                                   26.46

Budget                       € 3,604,049                  € 3,604,049                  € 3,604,049

() CA+SNE combined

(°) Resource permitting

(°) checked through dimensions training performance such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS
Project, training budget, number of PIT requests

MULTI-ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023-2025 | 31

--- Page 34 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

32 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Human and financial resources —
outlook for the years 2023 — 2025

Overview of the past and current situation

Staff population overview 2021-2023

Table 1 - Human resources 2021-2023(’)

2021                        2022             2023
Authorised          Staff          Authorised
underthe | population at | underthe | Requested
EU Budget    31/12/2021    EU Budget

Human resources

Temporary Agents (TA)
Contract Agents (CA)
Seconded National Experts
(SNE)

Total staff

External staff financed from
agreements

Structural service providers

Complete tables are provided in Annex IV & Annex V.

Revenues 2021-2023

For 2023, the Fees and Charges revenue number reflects the assumption taken on the in-
dexation of the hourly rate, as per the provisions of the Implementing Regulation in force
and taking into account the methodology endorsed by the Agency's Management Board.
For the subsidy part of the revenues in 2023, the updated % on EFTA contribution, as well
as the additional amount envisaged to partially compensate for the indexation of salaries
have been factored.

Table 2 - Revenues 2021-2023

Financial resources - Revenues                                      2022

(EUR)                                                                      Budget ("')
1. Fees and charges               4,138,980           7,038,812
2. EU contribution                27,061,160         26,278,423
3. Third countries

Revenues “| contribution                          693,999

(= EFTA)

4.45.+6.+ 7. Other

general revenues

9,670,598
27,418,274

656,721         801,315

10,000                     10,000

Total

31,904,139     33,983,956     37,890,187

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

(’) Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcounts), except for “External staff financed from agreements” where
FTE is used to ensure compliance with Table 17- Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant,
contribution or service-level agreements in Annex IV.

(°) Of which 28 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

(") 2022 budget reflects the transfers and amendments to date of the SPD 2023 adoption
(comment valid for Annex II & Ill)

--- Page 35 ---
Expenditures 2021-2023

Table 3 - Expenditure 2021-2023

al resources - Expenditure
(EUR)
Title 1 - Staffexpenditure      21,321,523        21,966,714        23,473,646
Title 2 - Infrastructure
and operating                      1,709,740           1,862,438           2,096,800

expenditure
Expenditure | Title 3 - Operational

expenditure

Total EU contribution

(Titles 1 + 2 + 3)

2,939,558       3,115,992       2,649,143

25,970,821          26,945,144         28,219,589

Total Fees and charges          3,608,193          7,038,812          9,670,598
Total                                               29,579,014       33,983,956       37,890,187

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

The Agency will need to constantly monitor the budget allocation for 2023 in line with its
ambition of deploying the envelope of 12 TAs envisaged in the EC draft budget proposal.
The 2023 budget can be further impacted by the evolution of inflation and salary index-
ation. Several precautions have been taken into account, including late/phased hiring of
the 12 TAs in 2023. The Agency will continuously inform the EC and the MB on the budget
implementation in 2023 and on any potential pressures arising during the year.

Outlook for the years 2023 - 2025

Growth of existing tasks:

In 2023, following the endorsement of the Strengthening Plan and the allocation of 12 ad-
ditional TAs to the Agency to implement it, the Agency will dedicate these resources to the
following priority domains, in line with the Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-2027:

a.) NSA monitoring

bJ) NoBo Monitoring

c) ERTMS and radio communication evolution

d) TSls

e.) The cleaning of national rules (technical, operational and safety rules)
f) CSM ASLP('?)

g.) Digitalisation of the Agency's registers

New tasks

While the FTE request for 2023 for the Information Sharing System could be embedded
in the current version, the Agency will prepare a separate budget request for the IT tool
development and maintenance. The benefits from such platform if enlarged to rail stake-
holders could be quite important and the Agency believes it needs a sufficient budget to
ensure its complete implementation. The budget proposal will also include the needs of
the Group of Analysts. With the current budget envelope, this need cannot be covered.

(#) 2022 budget reflects the transfers and amendments to date of the SPD 2023 adoption
(comment valid for Annex II & Ill)

(3) Up until now, CSM ASLP has been resourced by decreasing the allocation of other Safety projects. The Strength-
ening Plan foresees an additional allocation of staff to CSM ASLP, a section of which will be used to allow the
aforementioned policy areas to recover their original staffing needs.

HUMAN AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES - OUTLOOK FOR THE YEARS 2023 - 2025 | 33

--- Page 36 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

34 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Resource programming for the years 2023 - 2025

Financial resources

Table 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2023-2025

Financial resources                     2023               2024               2025
(EUR)                             Planned          Planned          Planned
1. Fees and charges                9,670,598          9,995,325         10,019,373
2. EU contribution                27,418,274        28,645,912         29,294,000
3. Third countries

contribution (= EFTA)

4.4+5.+6.+7. Other
general revenues

Total                                                                            37,890,187          39,479,082          40,170,244
Title 1 - Staff expenditure       23,473,646         24,817,103         25,334,217
Title 2 - Infrastructure and

Revenues                                  801,315        837,845        856,871

，             。               2,096,800         2,096,800         2,096,800
operating expenditure
Expenditure | litle 3- Operational              2,649,143         2,569,854         2,719,854
expenditure
Total EU contribution and
EFTA (Titles 1 +2 + 3)         28,219,589       29,483,757       30,150,871
Total Fees and charges           9,670,598         9,995,325        10,019,373
Total                                                 37,890,187      39,479,082      40,170,244

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

Human resources

Table 5 - Human resources - Outlook 2023-2025("‘)

2023

Human resources
Requested | ERA estimates | ERA estimates

Temporary Agents (TA)

Contract Agents (CA)
Seconded National Experts (SNE)
Total staff

External staff financed from agreements

Structural service providers
Complete tables are provided in Annex IV & Annex V.

Strategy for achieving efficiency gains

The Agency is committed to continuously improving its functioning, streamlining its pro-
cesses, optimising the engagement of its staff, and allowing for the reallocation of re-
sources to the most important priorities. The Agency will continue to realise the efficiency
effects from initiatives already started in the previous programming cycles, such as:

™ The very high degree of digitalisation, eliminating paper-processes and bringing
forward online solutions such as e-procurement, e-invoicing etc.

(4) Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcounts), except for “External staff financed from agreements” where
FTE is used to ensure compliance with Table 11- Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agree-
ments in Annex IV.

(9) Of which 27 assigned to Fees and charges

(9) Of which 9 assigned to Fees and charges

() Of which O assigned to Fees and charges

--- Page 37 ---
国 The continuous cooperation of the Agency with the EUAN network, as well as the
European Commission to increase its efficiency, including shared services or the
migration to SUMMA in 2022 as one of the three pilot agencies.

® The new prioritisation exercise (arbitration), focusing on multiannual planning,
and allocating resources in the most efficient manner, based on the highest value
for money for the EU citizens.

® Following a high number of valuable ad-hoc exchanges of expertise between
EASA and ERA, the Agency has initiated the formalisation of the Cooperation with
EASA and has defined the initial core areas of cooperation.

While the Agency will continue to strive for an even higher efficiency all across its process-
es and activities, its ambition is to affirm its stronger and stronger position as the technical
reference for the progress with railway interoperability and safety in the EU. The Agen-
cy worked, in close cooperation with the European Commission, to put forward a com-
prehensive Strengthening plan, which has been endorsed by the Management Board in
2022. Its main objective is to ensure that the Agency has the right level of resources
to perform the most adding value activities in an effective and efficient manner,
in line with its ambition level.

The Strengthening plan is built on the following pillars:

1.Further consolidating the data collection and transparency through reinforced
monitoring and a data-driven performance culture. This will entail the use and
further improvement of the existing tools and mechanism which yielded results
starting 2021, such as the SPD dashboard.

2. Budget planning, management, and absorption leading to better budget execu-
tion. This will entail the use and further improvement of the existing tools and
mechanism which already yielded results in 2021, such as the budget execution
monitoring. For the items of expenditure which represent a significant share of the
Agency's budget, benchmarking analyses with similar organisations will be run
and opportunities to use shared services with other agencies or with the EC will
be analysed.

3. Higher administrative efficiency: the Agency will further increase the direct utili-
sation of all its resources, will continue to seek for process efficiencies, including
through digitalisation and automation and will look at the most effective solutions
for sub-contracting non-critical and non-sensitive pieces of work.

4. Targeting the resources to achieve the EU policy objectives. While the level of am-
bition and action for the Agency around the defined strategic statements can be
very high, as also confirmed by the MB expectations during the SPD 2023 work-
shop, the Agency has put in place a mechanism of internal arbitration in order to
identify and put forward the priorities which can fit within the available envelope
of budget and human resources in order to ensure the best value for money for
the EU citizens.

5. Predictability and sustainability of Authority work: the Agency is continuously im-
proving the predictability of its authority tasks volume of work, while also working
on the streamlining of processes, including through automation (e.g. for the con-
formity to type activities) and better training of applicants.

The Strengthening Plan Task Force has been set up within the Agency and it will submit its
Action Plan 2023-2027 to the MB in November 2022.

HUMAN AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES - OUTLOOK FOR THE YEARS 2023 - 2025 | 35

--- Page 38 ---
Multi-annual programming 2023-2025

36 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks

Paused activities for the year 2023
™@ NSA Annual Performance review
™ Review of NIB accident investigation reports
® Integrated Management System

The Agency will no longer seek the ISO 9001 certification but focus all its efforts on up-
holding the European Commission Management standards and the Internal Control
Framework.

Stretched and targeted outputs for the year 2023
™ ERAAcademy

The budget of the ERA Academy has been reduced compared to previous years,
in order to partially offset the incremental costs incurred through the addition-
al 12 FTEs granted to the Agency. This might result in longer time to implement
the ERA Academy especially in the area of providing and facilitating training while
knowledge sharing is an area which has been highlighted on various occasions by
stakeholders as essential to improve Railway Safety.

™ Common Safety Methods on Assessment of Safety Level and Safety Performance

The CMS ASLP project and its future success heavily depend on the development
of the Information Sharing System (ISS). It could be adapted from ECCAIRS2, which
is a digital platform managed by the European Aviation Safety Agency assisting
aviation stakeholders in collecting, sharing, and analysing safety aviation informa-
tion. The benefits of adapting this platform to rails could be quite important and
the Agency would need a sufficient budget to ensure its complete implementa-
tion. Depending on the complexity of the options selected for adapting ECCAIRS2,
costs could range from 900k € to over 3 million €. With the current budget en-
velope, this need cannot be covered. The Agency is further assessing the possi-
ble options and will exchange on this additional budget need with the European
Commission

--- Page 39 ---

--- Page 40 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

38 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Executive summary

The Annual Work Programme for 2023 details all the projects and services which will be
carried out to contribute to the Agency’s goals in the year. The structure of the Work Pro-
gramme has been redesigned in order to organise the work of the Agency against desired
long-term outcomes, implementing therefore an effective multi-annual work programme
with developed objectives, as well as the intervention logic.

The annual work programme 2023 had been aligned to the priorities listed in the Agency's
Strengthening Plan and the corresponding implementing document (SAP 2023-2027),
which represents an anchor for the planning in SPD 2023 and the subsequent ones.

The Agency's efforts in 2023 are particularly focused on:

四 Technical and operational barriers: The Agency will work towards the reduc-
tion of technical and operations barriers within the rail market through, among
others, the amendment of TSls to be aligned with the technical innovations, har-
monisation of national rules among MSs, continuous NoBo monitoring, the deliv-
ery of 4th Railway package activities (SSC, ERTMS TA, VA), and the deployment of
ERTMS

™ Safety: The Agency will strengthen safety on rail through the development of
a safety culture, the monitoring of National Safety Authority, the Common Safe-
ty Methods on Assessment of Safety Level and Safety Performance (within the
boundaries linked to the resource constraints for the information sharing system),
and other relevant projects.

| Data developments and ticketing: The Agency will continue to foster develop-
ments in the field of Linked data, as well as development under the TAP TSI. The
Agency will continue its work on databases and registers optimisation.

® Communication and dissemination: The Agency will increase communicating
and disseminating relevant information and knowledge to its stakeholders, as well
as organising events and showcase the interesting projects and developments
within the rail sector.

® International Relations: The Agency will continue promoting EU and interna-
tional railway legislation and standards, as well as facilitating rail links in specific ge-
ographical areas of interest to the European Commission, in particular to improve
safety and cross-border interoperability.

™ Good governance: The Agency will strive for governance excellence and effi-
ciency in all of its activities and will continue its efforts for improving budget exe-
cution rates and overall compliance and performance.

To best illustrate the alignment between SPD 2023 and SAP 2023-2027, the indicators and
targets which contribute to the Strengthening Action Plan are indicated with a ticked box
in the annual tables hereinbelow. Moreover, the number of FTEs linked to SAP 2023-2027
is also highlighted in a separate column.

--- Page 41 ---
Activities

Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail,
assets can be reused throughout Europe.

Technical barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail are eliminated

Operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail are eliminated

All rail assets can be re-used across the EU

The expected outcomes are further detailed to the following intermediate outcomes more directly linked to the Agency's safety portfolio:
Note: intermediate outcomes        1, ERTMS is fully implemented on rolling stock by all Railway Undertakings

will be further developed in          2. ERTMS is fully implemented on railway infrastructure by all Infrastructure Managers

future SPDs                                  3. All railway rolling stock is TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) compliant by all RUs across the EU. (exc. TAP/TAF & OPE)

4. All railway infrastructure is TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) compliant by all IMs across the EU

5. National rules (rolling stock & fixed installation) are harmonised across the EU

6. All relevant railway-related data is shared in an open and transparent way so that it is utilisable and useful for the sector

Expected outcome

Harmonisation and reduction of Member-State specific National rules (both national safety rules and national technical rules) via SRD

Number of international passenger/freight trains at selected border stations (interoperability reports)

Number of hours spent at cross-border operations

Note: they will be further             ERTMS trackside deployment in the EU

developed in future SPDs           Vehicles equipped with ERTMs in the EU

Number of open type 3 issues when issuing VA and TA/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of VA and TA issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of data consumption of registers

Increase the understanding of the barriers preventing the ERTMS deployment across European Rail Network

Prioritisation and kick-off of the TSls CRs related to TS! Package 2022 follow-up such as telematics, security aspects, unique authorisation based on the national
rule's harmonisation, digital automatic coupler (DAC) facilitating the shunting of freight wagons, new materials, new on-board sources of energy, platform/train
interface, noise level limit for EMU, DMU, coaches and locomotives, etc.

Finalisation of the cleaning up National Rules for fixed installations

Progress towards outcome in      Improve internal data provisioning (registers) supporting more efficient authority and national rules cleaning processes by improving data quality and

2023                                    simplifying data architecture (fully digitized data sets)

Capitalize on the lessons learnt with National Safety rules and NSA monitoring in all MS

Continue capturing best practices/lessons learnt from NoBo monitoring

Improvements in the OSS for efficient Vehicle Authorisation for a quicker access of vehicles to the market

Increase of reutilisation of ERTMS trackside solutions

Identify and monitor EU Rail projects the outputs of which have potential to provide technical solutions for the next TS! Package revision

Outcome indicators

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources('*)

Financial resources("’)               71.27 FTEs + 6.37 additional FTE's from SAP implementation (recruitments expected to happen in a phased approach in 2023)

€ 2,246,463 (out of which € 1,080,000 for NSA costs & € 374,400 for PoE costs)

Fee-based                   Partially

(®) The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(8) The financial resources shown here only take into account the direct operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 39

--- Page 42 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Additional
Project Name          FTE from

Budget

assigned                            Output indicator                                         Output Target

SAP

€71,250               No. of reports for NoBos audit/inspection sent to NoBos for

NoBos monitoring | 4.01        0.99                                                                 auc?
comments after the onsite visit.

At least 9 reports

No. of reports for NoBos audit/inspection delivered                     At least 5 reports
Anew common framework for NoBos, DeBos and AsBo
v__| assessment and monitoring set up by the Agency (new legal         First concept drafted
base may be needed)

V |No.of NoBo audits performed per year                               15
Harmonising           298         129          €9,500                 Increased harmonisation of operations - support EC with TDD        100% of EC requests answered
railway operations                                                        renewa
v     Increased performance of and trust in MS as control level - assess | 100% of planned MS assessed (incl. impact of earlier TO if
NSR set up in MS (incl. impact of TO, if relevant)               7         relevant) _

“| Increased performance of SMS - draft new regulation for                                     ;       ;          ;       ;          ;       ;
Vv     harmonisation of Type 5 NSR                                               | Draft new requlation and develop guidance / training

Increased harmonisation of operation  fine new structure for |
Vv    eased harmonisation of operatio 3 - define new structure fo  New TSI OPE structure finds general acceptance

TS! OPE
es ee
TSIs maintenance | 3.55      0.94       €34,295 | _|CRon platform/train | interface        __ | State of play of the platform height completed
Update on the guides on ERA website                                       All guides updated
TSI maintenance progress                                                       10 CRs finalised
sn cf ROM Rearend SG nnannnanannnansnnl ROSES                a
MJ Ron DAC.         Ss         |. [Implementation proposal
V | CRs on Standards                                                            All new EN referred to in TSI analysed
V |TSls as a global standard                                                       International Strategy - 1st Draft delivered
v                                                process                       Harmonised
:  v “| TSI Dissemination Workshops         a         |     4  |

40 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 43 ---
Project Name

Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Learning from Tsls

Research and
Innovation (S)

Revision of VA
guides and
procedures

Revision of ERTMS
Trackside approval

Board of Appeal
(BoA)

Business helpdesk
VA, SSC and
ERTMS Trackside
approval

0.95

1.01

2.54

1.93

0.25

€ 8,550

€ 2,850

€ 150,000

€ 15,200

€52,250

Support to NOBOs

Support to EC (TO/Advice/Derogations/ NoBos) within agreed
deadlines

Europe's Rail JU projects of interest for the Agency monitored
List of Europe's Rail JU projects of interest for the Agency
identified

Support to the Europe's Rail JU and cooperation with other
bodies on research

Proportion of problems detected during vehicle authorisation
activities (including pre-engagement and notifications) for which

| solutions are proposed

100 % Participation to NB Rail PLE and STR
100%

At least 20% projects of interest for the Agency monitored

depending on available resources

100% of JU new projects analysed

At least one written communication on the Agency's research

needs to the relevant bodies

5 VA return of experience meetings

Proportion of problems detected during vehicle authorisation

activities (including pre-engagement and notifications) for which
solutions are proposed

Proportion of problems related to vehicle authorisation activities
(including pre-engagement and notifications) reported by
stakeholders for which solutions are proposed

Proportion of major problems assessed with a decision following
the change control process

Issuance of findings and decisions of the Board of Appeal on
time

Improvement plan

Proportion of the requests on the Agency scope of work
addressed to the business helpdesk answered within 10 working
days for 2021

95%

295%

Delivered

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 41

--- Page 44 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Additional     Budget
Project Name               FTE from         99                                                Output indicator                                                                Output Target
assigned
SAP
Manage ERTMS       7.92        0.60         € 38,000               CCS TSI - Enhanced CCS framework                                        Work plan (2023-2027) developed by end 2023
long term                                                        v     CCS TSI - Maintenance and operational activities for CCS              Publication of CCS TSI Application guide
evolution                                                                   Framework

__| ERTMS Database - Enhanct
[ERTMS Database - Error change requests
V |Review of ESC/RSC and roadmap for reduction

Support for the EU-wide deployment of ERTMS, including
V |economicimpact analysis to inform possible public investment “| Requests of CINEA- DG Move 100% assessed

closed

lumber of er

ESC/RSC roadmap proposal 加

prioritisation
DeliverySsCVA | 840                      €2850               Issuing Approvals - Proportion of decisions taken according to      100%
ERTMS Trackside                                                          the legal framework deadlines
approvals                                                                 Issuing Single Safety Certificates - Proportion of decisions taken

according to the legal framework deadlines (for completeness        100%
and assessment phases)

Issuing Vehicle Authorisation, including ERTMS on-board
assessments - Proportion of decisions taken according to the
legal framework deadlines (for completeness and assessment
Phases)...

100%

42 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 45 ---
Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget

assigned                            Output indicator                                         Output Target

Project Name

Registers                                           € 136,800               ERADIS - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests,
Operation and                                                       document publication and users management

Development                                                               ERADIS - Improvements according to the release plan including
agreed change requests (CR)

ERATV - % of submitted records published or clarification

10 days

100% approved CRs delivered

9
requested        ;              cos              co                ;           oo ;

ERATV - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and users    10 days
management                                                                           y

ERATV - Improvements according to the release plan including
agreed change requests (CR)

EVR - Avg. migration time of received local NVRs (data) migrated
to EVR

EVR - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests, letter
marking codes and users management

EVR - Improvements according to the release plan including
agreed change requests (CR)

OCR - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and
Organisation Codes management

OCR - Improvements according to the release plan including
agreed change requests (CR)

100% approved CRs delivered
6 months

10 days

100% approved CRs delivered
10 days

100% approved CRs delivered

RINF handover                                                                     By end of December 2023
SAIT - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and user        10 working days
management

SAIT - Business requirements capture for ISS integration delivered | End 2023
SAIT - Migration - Full set of functionalities deployed as per
technical documentation

SRD - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests,
lettermarking codes and users management

SRD - Improvements according to the release plan including
agreed change requests (CR)

VKMR - Vehicle Keeper Merking list publication                           Monthly publication

Mid 2023
10 days

100% approved CRs delivered

V |Agency becoming a registration entity for vehicles at the EU level | Proposal for EC decision sent

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 43

--- Page 46 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Project Name

Management
of Innovation
and Long-term

evolution of the
Agency

Executing VA

Executing TA

TSI
implementation

OSS releases

National
Technical Rules

Manage Radio
Communication
evolution

management

3.08

243

Additional
FTE from
SAP

0.25

1.79

0.27

44 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Budget
assigned

€ 14,250

€ 1,111,200

€ 343,200

€ 219,503

€ 13,965

€ 22,800

14.6 of IOP

guide)

Output indicator

Available deliverables of projects of interest (level 2 to 3)
uploaded onto the Tech Watch library

Coordinated Agency's position on strategic innovation activities
under the System Pillar e.g. ERJU MAWP

Promoting the Agency's proposal(s) for its long-term evolution

Executing VA

Executing ERTMS TA

Monitoring and facilitating the TSI implementation

Monitoring and facilitating the TSI implementation

Proportion of significant problems detected during operation for
which solutions are available in a next release.

National rules for fixed installations according to Art 14.5 and

NRs to include in TSls

CCM: GSM-R and FRMCS CR's on error corrections and
enhancements
Project mgt and progress reporting

Technical Opinion and/or preparation of CCS TSI revision

CCS TSI Application Guide specific part for Radio: publication of
the Guide with updates in line with the CCS TS! 2022.

CCS TSI maintenance (error corrections, updated application

All rules migrated

Output Target

Available deliverables of projects of interest (level 2 to 3)
uploaded on the Tech Watch library according to resources
availability

Position paper(s) agreed internally and shared timely with the EC
& ERJU

Communication on the updated document ‘A compelling vision
for the target rail system’

Legal deadlines and according to the process

Legal deadlines and according to the process

Drafting implementation template finalised

100% assessed according to Art 25 and 26 of ERA Regulation

CRs introduced

Q4 2023

On request

Q4 2023

Application guide available


--- Page 47 ---
Strategic statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and
will be favoured as atransport mode by the new generations.

Strategic statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured,

including multi-leg ticketing.

Expected outcome

Note: intermediate outcomes will be
developed in future SPDs

Outcome indicators

Note: they will be further developed in
future SPDs

Progress towards outcome in 2023

Expected resource envelope:
Human resources(”°)

Financial resources(?')

Fee-based

Improved synergies with other transport modes, placing railways at the core of the new multimodal transport system
Sustainability of railways will be further enhanced and showcased

Rail is the preferred mode of transport of new generations

Seamless rail traffic

Mobility as a service and Logistics as a service are ensured

Multi-leg ticketing supports the new multimodal transport system in the EU

The level of implementation of TAF and TAP TSI as monitored through the annual “Safety and Interoperability Progress Report"
Evolution in share of rail (both passenger and freight) in the EU's transport market compared to air, road or maritime transport

GHG emission from rail compared with other transport modes (shares %)

Publish at least one annual topic report on the green Agenda
Publish the Interoperability Progress report for TAF/TAP TSI
Extension of TAP access to ticket vendors (information on timetable, tariff. and journey in real-time)

Messages on train composition, train running, and consignment/ wagon tracking will be made available to not only railway undertakings but also to
transporters sending goods by train

Harmonisation of the rules for the codification system used for combined transport

3.56 FTE
€ 93,688

No

(°). The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(2) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 45


--- Page 48 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

FTEfrom    Budget

Project Name     FTE        SP         excited)                                         Output indicator                                                            Output Targe
Manage the              1.42                         € 18,050                     Change requests included in TAF technical appendices,                   042023
evolution of                                                                          according to the CCM process
Telematics
application for

Monitoring of the TAF TSI implementation - progress report on      Q2 2023

freight (TAF TSI)                                                           Year -1

Green agenda        0.12                    € 4,038                                 .                                                                       Report published and event around the results of the report
Annual topical report                                             organised

Manage the        1.02              € 55,450            Change requests included in TAP technical appendices,

evolution of                                                                      according to the CCM process                    mp                            Q2 and Q4 2023

Telematics                                          ee
application for

passengers (TAP                                                               Monitoring of the TAP TS! implementation - progress report on      Q2 2023

Ts)                                                                           Year -1

TDG Coordination

.00                    € 16,150                 No. of meetings where ERA supports the EC in accordance with     15
the AR art. 17.

46 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 49 ---
Strategic statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of transport for its users and workers.

Improved safety and security on rail
Improved safety and security for rail workers
Expected outcome                                                                                             |                            a.                                                                                                                           .
The expected outcomes are further detailed to the following intermediate outcomes more directly linked to the Agency's safety portfolio:

All railway operators - IM, RU, ECM - understand and accept their responsibility and actively implement an SMS to control the risks of operational activities;
An increased performance of and trust in the different safety related control levels in the system - ERA, MS, NSA, ASBO, ECM CB, accreditation, recognition, NIB;

Safety and safety management/performance related data is shared in an open and transparent way;

(Number of open type 3 issues when issuing SSC’s/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of SSC's issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued

Outcome indicators                Number of appeals made by operators in a year linked to SSC certification/ average number of SSCS issued per year

Note: they will be further            Percentage of NSAs audited with at least 1 deficiency (focused on deficiencies still open from the 1st cycle). Note: this is a rolling indicator
developed in future SPDs            NSA Monitoring: number of deficiencies still open (follow-up of the 1st cycle) vs number of deficiencies of the 1st cycle (rolling indicator) Note: this is a rolling
indicator

Number of peer reviewed NIB's

Number of volunteering NIBs to participate in the NIB peer review/ total number of NIBs (on a yearly basis)
Reinforce the maturity of operators (i.e. IM, RU, ECM) in the implementation of their management systems

Progress towards outcome in         Reinforce the maturity of the different legal control levels in adequately fulfilling their activities (ie. MS, NSA, CSM AsBo, ECM certif. bodies, NoBo (DeBo), accreditation/
2023                                             recognition, NIBs)

Ensure and actively promote through SAT, SIS and other systems the sharing of safety related data for proper decision-making at all levels in the railway system
Expected resource envelope:

Human resources(”)                 26.61 FTE's + 0.99 additional FTE's from SAP implementation (recruitments expected to happen in a phased approach in 2023)
Financial resources(?*)                  € 868,353 (out of which € 480,000 for NSA costs & € 179,400 for PoE costs)
Fee-based                                Partially

(2) The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(2) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 47

--- Page 50 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Additional
FTE from

Budget

Project Name                                                        Output indicator

assigned

NSA Monitoring | 4.62
implementation
Develop Safety       1.93
Culture

Sustainable safety
management

48 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

€ 142,500

€7,600

No. of audit reports delivered

No. of audit reports sent to NSA for comments after the onsite
visit

Proper learning from the NSA monitoring

No. of NSA audits performed

Assessment of NSA Supervision activities of RUs where the
Agency has issued the SC

Draft report on the development of a safety culture (RSD Art.
29.2)

Enriched training material on regulatory oversight of safety

culture

ERA-SCS Follow up activities executed according to plan
ERA-SCS on request

Process to gather safety culture information based on existing
Agency activities

Safety Culture and Leadership Training delivered according to
plan (subject to MB decision)

Safety Culture Peer Review Service on request
Safety Days 2023 (Content)

Strengthen ASBO control level - coordination of ASBO (meetings,
REU development, 210) mum          cos            oo
Strengthen ECM control level - coordination of ECM certification
bodies (meetings, RFU development, etc.)

Strengthen SMS - develop, deliver and maintain guidance
material on SMS (incl. app, website, etc.)

Strengthen SMS - develop, deliver and maintain guidance
material on CSM RA/MO-             a              i

Strengthen ECM control layer - develop, deliver and maintain
guidance material on ECM certification

Strengthen SMS - develop, deliver and maintain guidance
material on TDG risk management

Strengthen SMS (TDG) - coordination of EUDG meetings

Strengthen SMS (TDG) - development of the Risk Management
Platform (RMP)

At least 4
At least 6

Follow-up of deficiencies ensured
8

Pilot during the 2nd year of the 2nd cycle

1 report

Training material

“| 100%

100%

New process implemented

Content delivered

Meetings organised, support material published or delivered
Meetings organised, support material published or delivered

Support material published or delivered (in collaboration with
ERA Academy)

Support material published or delivered (in collaboration with

ERA Academy)

Support material published or delivered (in collaboration with
ERA Academy)
Support material published or delivered (in collaboration with
ERA Academy)

Meetings organised, support material developed

RMP proof-of-concept/Beta V3.0; reference manual V3.0


--- Page 51 ---
Project Name

Learning
from safety
performance

Revision of SSC
guides and
procedures

Common Safety
Methods on
Assessment

of Safety Level
and Safety
Performance

1.35

0.46

Additional
FTE from
SAP

0.68

Budget
assigned

€ 1,900

€ 8,503

<

< <““ “<“

Output indicator

NIB (possibly to be combined with NIB peer review)
Strengthening SMS + strengthening NSA control layer - develop
training modules on measuring safety performance/risk-based

supervision

Collection of feedback, identification of lessons learned and
possible improvement for ERA guides and procedures

Proportion of change requests pertaining to ERA guides and
procedures which lead to their revision as appropriate

GoA/JNS fast track procedure

GoA/JNS normal procedure
GoA/JNS fast track procedure
GoA/JNS normal track procedure a.

ISS development

Support to Operators and Authorities for CSM ASLP
implementation

ISS IT description

Management of the Group of Analysts
CSM Development

CSM Development

CSM guidance/training
CSM Implementation

Strengthening NIB control layer - bilateral feedback provided to #

Training modules developed and tested

5 SSC plenary meetings and 2 Peer Review Group meetings

95%

Final Report delivered according to the time plan set up by the
steering group decision             a             a

Final Report delivered according to the time plan set up by the
steering group decision

GoAV/JNS proposal

GoA proposal & ERA follow-up report             a

Beta version finalised and tested in 2023, subject to allocation
of resource and IT development budget, dependent from ISS IT
description

Satisfaction of railway stakeholders

Subject to a separate budget request, ISS high level technical
description, including roles and responsibilities for use and
maintenance, functioning of the Common Digital Interface
GoA meetings chaired

Recommendation on Appendix C

Technical Opinion on Appendix A updated according to the
lessons learned

Guide on safety performance published

User support for implementation

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 49.

--- Page 52 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Project Name

FTE

Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Support to NIB
Peer Review

Integration of
Human and
Organisational
Factors

Executing SSC

Follow-up audit -
report on the state
of implementation
and application of
EU legislation on
railway safety and
interoperability in
Spain

Safety Trainings
and Assistance to
Rail Stakeholders
(STARS)

5.20

0.66

2.05

50 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

€ 14,250

€ 659,400

€ 34,200

Dissemination on HOF topics

ERA to attend as observer, at least remotely, to the meetings of
NIB Peer Reviewed

Collaboration on HOF topics to build and share knowledge

Dissemination on HOF topics

Guidance on a HOF topic adopted and published

Training on specific HOF topics

Executing SSC

Report

Requests for safety trainings assessed

Trainings delivered according to the request assessment

Requests for assistance assessed

Assistance delivered according to the request assessment

Attend to, at least, 50% of NIBs Peer Review meetings

HOF Collaboration with organisations and research institutes in
railways and other safety domains
HOF webinar and social media presence

Training on HOF in change management toolkit

Develop and pilot HOF training content for modules included in
the ERA Academy portfolio

Legal deadlines and according to the process

Delivered to EC by end of Q3


--- Page 53 ---
Strategic statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergency situations

Resilience of the rail sector to emergency situations and external events
Expected outcome

Agility of the rail sector to respond quickly and efficiently to emergency situations

Outcome indicators                    The indicators will be developed in future SPDs, as no projects will contribute to the achievement of the statement in 2023.

Progress towards outcome in 2023 | There will be no progress towards outcome in 2023, as no projects have been allocated to the strategic statement at this stage.

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources                        O FTEs
Financial resources                       €0
Fee-based                              No

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 51

--- Page 54 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Strategic statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive as a mode and as a sector.

Expected outcome

Economic competitiveness of the rail sector compared with other modes of transport
Note: intermediate outcomes will be
developed in future SPDs

Evolution in rail traffic in absolute terms

Ortaenoinelteta                    Proportion of rail vs road and air transport, for passenger and freight rail in the EU

Note: they will be further developed

in future SPDs                           Number of pax-km per passenger train-km

Number of tonne-km per freight train-km

Average ERTMS costs (trackside and on-board
Increase evidence and knowledge to support impact and outcome-based decision making through:

Progress towards outcome in 2023 _ | Impact assessments, ex-post evaluations and other economic analyses

Reporting on progress for safety / interoperability and other dedicated analyses
Expected resource envelope:

Human resources(*)                      3.07 FTE
Financial resources(?°)                      € 30,400
Fee-based                                No

() The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(2) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

52 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025


--- Page 55 ---
Additional
Project Name     FTE | FTEfrom
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator                                         Output Target

Number of impact assessments delivered for recommendations | Number of IAs corresponds to the number recommendations

Impact        1.03         € 15,200                                                r             ds to th
aessments                                                             _| and opinions                                                                    delivered /number of opinions issued

Task Force Report endorsed by ESG                                          Report delivered to the ESG by December

Ex-post

.                 0.50                     € 3,325                   Number of completed ex-post evaluations                                 At least one
evaluations

Reporting on     061           €9500 |_| Annual assessment report on achievernents of CSTs | 31/03/2023

Railway System
yoy                                                                  Annual overview for safety                                                    Available by March

Data and

information            0.83                      €2,375                    Complete the targeted studies that are selected by the MT            Two targeted studies
analysis

Women in              0.10                     .                            Publication of theses/dissertations and possibly traineeship at       1

transport                   :                                                           ERA

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 53

--- Page 56 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Strategic statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA authorisations will be globally recognised.

Expected outcome                       The EU is a global reference for railway certifications and integration

Note: intermediate outcomes will
be developed in future SPDs

Outcome indicators

ERA authorisations are recognised worldwide

Note: they will be further             Number of participants in ERA training sessions and other dissemination events
developed in future SPDs

Progress towards outcome in         IPA and other EU Conferences

2023

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources(*)                  9.94 FTE
Financial resources(?’)                 € 625,246
Fee-based                                No

(8). The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(?’) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

54 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025


--- Page 57 ---
Additional
Project Name     FTE | FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator                                         Output Target

The Academy achieves its planned activities as described in the
yearly Comm and Diss Plan, and reports regularly to the MB.
Building the Knowledge HUB (e-learning environment), Safety | The knowledge HUB is built as planned in the yearly Comm &
Management Training Project and ERA Competency Framework | Diss Plan.

ERA Academy         2.14                     € 335,565                 Building and managing the Academy

Events and webinars, dissemination activities                         Delivering ERA events according to the yearly Comm & Diss plan
Coordination     159           620403 | [colabonationwihD9D suunnnnnnES
of international                                                             Collaboration with OTIF                                                      Ensured
relations

Engagement with other international regulation bodies

(Platform of regulators)                                                                             Ensured

Support to EC in wider international engagement                    Ensured

Networks        1.05           647500 |...) Networks NIB cooperation cm9anised a smnnnnnannnnsnnnnnnnnannnnn
Networks - NRB management and coordination                      Organised
Networks - NSA Network                                                     Organised

IPA and Western      1.00                                            名 national rules of IPA Beneficiaries are collected, analysed and   Assistance provided by ERA

Balkans                                                                       aligned to TSls

IPA beneficiaries are familiar with EVR and actively use it. Data

from existing NVRs is successfully migrated to EVR                   Assistance provided by ERA

_IPA beneficiaries establish a functioning NSA and NIBAssistance provided by ERA
Train driver licensing of IPA beneficiaries is up to the standard
of the EU. Train driver licenses issued by WB6 are mutually          Assistance provided by ERA
recognized.

WB6 have an electronic register and management system of

railway infrastructure, taking into account the existence of RINF    Assistance provided by ERA

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 55

--- Page 58 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Project Name

Online corporate
communication

Publications
management

Collaboration
with European
and international
standardization
organizations

56 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

FTE

2.65

0.26

Budget

assigned

€ 214,368

€7A410

Output indicator

Community management strategy sus

LinkedIn - Number of original posts
Moodle platform availability

7:  Organising Webinars

Twitter - Number of original posts
Twitter - Number of retweets
Website availability

YouTube - Number of original videos.

Creating and implementing communication campaigns aiming
at explaining ERA’s mission, activities and added value
Strengthening and keeping the consistence of ERA corporate
design

Assessment of the new standard version to be referred to in TSIs
ERA-UIC coordination

Participation to the meeting related (RASCOP, CLC/TC9X, CEN/
TC256, ISO/TC269, ISO/TC204, IEC/TC9, ETSI)

Output Target

Developed by end of Dec 2023

At least 6 posts per month      a
> 97% (excludin
At least 10 webinars/year

ing mainten  ce)

At least 10 posts per month
At least 12 retweets per month
> 97% (excluding maintenance)

At least 2 videos per month

2 Communication Campaigns

2 internal training sessions delivered to ERA Staff

New version assessed within the agreed deadlines
Implement the coordination framework of 2021

50% participation based on priority topics


--- Page 59 ---
Strategic statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient governance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the best
value for money to citizens and business in the EU

Effective and efficient governance of the Agency’ portfolio

The Agency's activities provide value for money guaranteed to EU citizens and businesses across the EU

The expected outcomes have been further detailed in the following intermediate outcomes:

Digitalisation of the Agency: Single source of data for internal access; Single source of data for external access; Data is only introduced once

Staff understand the mission and vision of the Agency, internalise it and have the flexibility, the ownership/ autonomy with their activities, and a clear mutual
Expected outcome                                 understanding of their roles and responsibilities to actively contribute to the strategic direction of the Agency

Note: intermediate outcomes will be        The Agency has a sound and agile governance framework, whose processes and administration favour clarity, efficiency and decision making at the right
further finetuned in future SPDs            level.

The SPD process steers the Agency’ strategy and multi-annual work programme development in an integrated, evidence-based, and coordinated manner
as well as the monitoring of its effectiveness. This can be achieved through interfacing with the internal stakeholders owning the strategies and the external
stakeholders (EC, EB strategic calendar, etc)

SPD is the single reference (for internal and external stakeholders) for all critical tactical information providing the overarching view on the implementation of
the projects and services

The Agency is a learning, ethical, legally complying organisation where the decision-making, the strong financial control, the monitoring, and reporting
processes give the ED the assurance of best value for money

Outcome indicators
Note: they will be further developed in | Budget discipline (% of deviation from annual budget)

future SPDs                                    Data is FAIR, measured on a scale

Proper SPD-CAAR cycle implemented, with a clear focus on compliance and performance; Strengthening plan actions for 2023 implemented
Feasibility check to measure the Agency reputation and stakeholder’s satisfaction via sentiment analysis; collect feedback re. the website
Progress towards outcome in 2023
Effective Data Governance in place with Reference Data appropriation
Driving an organisational culture change

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources(*)                         26.54 FTE's + 3.88 additional FTE's from SAP implementation (recruitments expected to happen in a phased approach in 2023)
Financial resources(?°)                          € 357,800
Fee-based                                        No

() The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
() The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 57

--- Page 60 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Additional
Project Name         FTE from

Supporting EB and
MB meetings

Organisational         7.74
strategic
programming,
monitoring and
reporting

58 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

SAP

Budget
assigned

€ 66,500

Output indicator

meetings

Strategies identified, steered and monitored

SPD 2024-2026

SPD 2025 - 2027

Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget planning, monitoring and reporting
Budget review

SPD 2023 substantial and non-substantial amendments

SPD 2023 monitoring Dashboard

| CAAR 2022

% of internal/ external requests for corporate performance
related data and information addressed

% of mandatory decision topics for year N covered by the EB/MB

_| Adopted by MB

Output Target

First draft endorsed by MB in January and final document
adopted by MB in November

MB workshop organised and workshop report circulated to the
participants

Budget 2024 request encoded in BadgBudg

100% of budget transfers approved in line with ERA Financial
Regulation provisions

>98% of appropriations committed

<1 0% of carry-over of payment appropriations for 1
<20% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T2
<30% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T3
>95% of execution of C8 payment appropriations
>95% of payments made by contractual deadline

At least 6 budget reviews organised

Adopted by MB (substantial)/ adopted by ED (non-substantial)

Presented to MT (monthly basis) and EB/MB (at every meeting)

100%


--- Page 61 ---
Project Name

FTE

Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Internal
Management and
Control System

Legal support

Accounting

Media/press
relation and crisis
management

3.80

2.00

2.00

0.70

% of nonconformities identified for which corrective/preventive
actions are identified

Agency’ most significant risks identified and assessed. Remedial
actions plans in place.

Documented assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal

Agency's processes management - % of Agency processes

revised in line with the ICF and leaning objectives
Audit implementation_% of IAS/ECA recommendations
implemented in line with the action plan

Financial verification_ Residual error rate following ex-post

control

Financial verification _Information sessions on systemic errors
detected

% of legal acts issued by the Agency, as defined by the Agency
regulation, for which legal advice was provided

Accounting - Opinion in the CoA annual report on reliable
Agency accounts.

Deliver effective crisis communications

Deliver effective media coverage of ERA events

Deliver effective media relations

Improve capability e.g. by early detection systems, a tool for
reputation measuring/monitoring
Test & refresh reputational awareness of staff

Improve capability: review corporate messaging, design a multi-

_| annual campaign, include videos, FWC with PR agency _

100%

Documented and reported in CAAR
Prepared and included in the CAAR
100%

<2%

2

Positive

No reputational damages (legal actions, written complains)
Increased media coverage per ERA event compared to previous
year in relevant international media & in specialised media
Increased number of articles/features compared to 2022; all
enquiries answered within deadline; etc (details see plan)

Training delivered, quality of communications by non-SAC staff
improved
Key messages defined, improved tools and procedures, action

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 59.

--- Page 62 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Project Name

FTE

Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Procurement
Service

Ethics service

Management,
control and
support of ERA
portfolio of
projects and
services

Interoperable data

3.00

0.10

1.34

3.44

3.88

60 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

€ 255,550

No. of procurement procedures timely organised out of the
total number of procurement procedures planned in the annual
procurement plan

% of Agency's staff trained on antifraud and Ethics

% of annual declaration of interests (Dol) submitted by staff
members

Communication of SPD outputs for which risks cannot be
mitigated within Agency's control

Monthly reports for Agency's projects and services

Projects at risk of not achieving SPD outputs identified, causes
analysed, mitigation measures proposed and implemented by
the PM/SM, PO/SO

Handover to Registers team

Linked data programme implementation towards a data-centric
organisation.

Linked data programme implementation towards a data-centric

nuous
implementation towards a data-centric organisation.
Timely management of RINF user support requests
Migration plan for the individual registers to a linked data
approach, including the standardization of terminology
through the ERA terminology

>90%

at least 15% per each type of training

at least 90%

90% of project outputs that will not be fully achieved
communicated to the Management team

100% of mitigation measures proposed and implemented for
projects at risk by the PM/SM, PO/SO.

By end of December 2023

Define the Agency's data architecture and relevant processes of
its governance.

Progress data-centricity and user-centricity.

Controlled vocabularies cover at least a part of authorisations’
related data.

90%

Draft migration plan prepared


--- Page 63 ---
Project Name

FTE

Additional
FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Internal
communication
lifecycle

DPO (Data

0.82

Actions based on survey results

Evaluation survey

Percentage of pieces of advice and consultation provided on

Protection Officer)    030                           -                    time                                                                                100%

Bente Together       0.55                      €4,750               Change plan updated with the last 6 work packages                   Implementation of the change plan
Revision of            0.10                         .                   Production environment of ARES put in place                           Ql

Document                                                             Internal coordination on ARES implementation within the           Organised with all units/departments
Management and                                                                  Agency

Archiving

100% of the top 20% ranked according to impacts

One survey per year

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 61

--- Page 64 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Strategic statement 9 -The Agency will ensure a performant working environment, based on high-quality motivated human resources
and a collaborative behaviour

Expected outcome

Performant working environment at the Agency
Note: intermediate outcomes will | Cojlaborative behaviour showcased through all processes and deliveries of the Agency

be further developed in future
SPDs                                       High-quality service delivery

Staff satisfaction (evaluated through the Staff Engagement Survey or own survey with the same scope and questions)

oe                        Highly trained staff (checked through dimensions training performance such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS Project, training budget,
Outcome indicators                  number of PIT requests)

Note: they will be further             HR strategy action plan progress
developed in future SPDs                   .                                                                      .
Overtime (% worked above the 40 hours/week on a monthly basis, over 110%)
Cloud migration - infrastructure migrated to the cloud

ICT strategy action plan progress
Clarify the concept of digital transformation, defining the scope and the impact on the Agency's activities. Baselining

Setting the strategic landscape for HR, Registers, IT, etc.
Appropriate supply of working tools, such as SYSPER2, SUMMA, New SharePoint environment, and deployment of cloud-based services

Facilitating the network compatibility checks done by the RUs by mean of applications based on RINF Register accessible as Linked Data
Progress towards outcome in

2023                                                       Competency management framework:

Self-assessment for the PAD action plan, testing the process for future development
Fully deployed in IMS

Align staff T literacy with new environments (e.g. Power Bl, planner, PowerApps, etc.)

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources(*°)                 26.46 FTE
Financial resources                     € 983,049 (Title 3 & 4.3) + € 2,621,000 (Title 2 & 4.2) => € 3,604,049
Fee-based                                 Partially

(2°), The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.

62 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025


--- Page 65 ---
Additional
Project Name          FTE from
SAP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator                                         Output Target

ICT Service            10.91                    € 982,455                                                                                                     97%
from                                                                                                           95%
relevant    J ONETES  oy oe  ee  ne ae  了
chapters in              Average yearly availability of the Necessary IT systems                   93%
13/T4.3 + €
1,308,000
from                      ServiceDesk user satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent” rate         >70%
relevant
chapters in
T2/T4.2
FM Service           7.70                    € 1,313,000             Execution of evacuation exercise at the ERA HQ                        At least 1 exercise per year
from
relevant                 ServiceDesk users’ satisfaction feedback “Very Good/Excellent"       570%
chapters in              rate
T2/T4.2
HR Service            7.63                     €594                    % implementation of the establishment plan                            > 98%
_[%.of stafftumover       So       Sos       | EOWET OF equal 10 5%
% implementation of the external personnel plan (CAs and SNEs) | >98%
ServiceDesk users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent” rate        >70%
New ERA building | 0.22                     .                          Study - Phase 5: "Assistance consultation concours Maitrise          Completion of phases 5 & 6 of the Study
Phase 2                                                                 d'ceuvre" and Phase 6 “Conception, mise au point et optimisation

projet” (total of one year maximum)

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2023 | 63

--- Page 66 ---
Annual Work programme 2023

Methodological note:

A. FTEs - the resources are planned for the Strategic Statements (in line with the enve-

lopes shown above), as well as for ERA Management and administration.

The table shows in a separate column (‘Additional FTE from SAP") the a

location of the

additional resources envisaged in the EC proposal (12 TAs), to which a correction factor has
been applied in terms of phased/late hiring out of prudence.

The margin up to the maximum establishment plan accommodated the difference be-

tween headcount and FTEs (e.g. part time work, late hiring to cope with t!

straints etc.)

Strategic stateme:                         FTE

Additional
FTEs from SAP

he budget con-

Total FTE

Strategic statement 1                           71.27             6.37              77.63
Strategic statement 2&3                            3.56                  =                   3.56
Strategic statement 4                               26.61               0.99                27.60
Strategic statement 5                                >                   =                    =
Strategic statement 6                                3.07                  -                   3.07
Strategic statement 7                             9.94                 =                  9.94
Strategic statement 8                               26.54               3.88                30.42
Strategic statement 9                               26.46                 =                  26.46
ERA Management and administration       23.15                -                 23.15
Total                                                    192.60            11.23             201.83
B. Budget - the financial resources are planned as follows:
Note on the link to                               Fees and
Expenditures        the P/S from the        EU Subsidy                              Total
4                                    charges
annual section

Staff costs          These are not included | € 23,473,646 | € 6,561,504       € 30,035,150

in the P/S budget

envelopes in the

annual section above
Infrastructure | These are included in      € 2,096,800      €524,200        € 2,621,000
operating          the budget for the ICT
expenditure       service and the FM

service (StSt 9)
Operational       These are included in      € 1,834,140      € 2,388,403      € 4,222,543
expenditure       the budget for all the

P/S in StSt1 - StSt 9
Out of which            Allocated by ERA                  -                            € 1,560,000         € 1,560,000
costs for NSAs for | P/S (ERA1242,1243,1244)
the F&C
Out of which           Allocated by ERA                 -                         € 553,800           € 553,800
costs for PoE for      P/S (ERA1242,1243,1244)
the F&C
Meetings,           Not allocated by ERA       € 29,040           -                     € 29,040
missions, other | P/S
costs
Other               Allocated under the       € 785,964        € 196,491         € 982,455
operational        ICT service in StSt9
expenditure
TOTAL                                                                    € 28,219,589 | € 9,670,598 | €37,890,187

64 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 67 ---

--- Page 68 ---
Annexes

Annex |. Organisational chart

Figure 1 - Organisational chart as of 01/01/2023

Executive Director (ED)

Railway Systems (RSY)

Rolling Stock & Fixed
Installations (FIRST)

Safety & Operations (SAFO)

ERTMS and Telematics
Applications (ERTMS)

Planning & Approvals Delivery

(PAD)                              Analysis & Monitoring (AAM)

Conformity                Ve        le
toType *          n (VA)
Safety Certification (SSC)

ERTMS Trackside Approval

(TA)                                  Registers & Databases

Portfolio Management

Research

& Support

66 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Executive Office &
Communication (EXO)

nal Relations

Intern

Stakeholders Rel

Academy &

Data Information &
Governance
Digital
Transformation

—

Corporate Assurance &

Corporate Performance

a                         Other function

Performance (CAP)                    Resources & Support (RSU)

Human Resources

Internal Control &
Financial Verification

Budget

--- Page 69 ---
Table6- Number of posts for each organisational entity (headcount)

EU contribution & Fees & se
orTeam
= Posts

Executive Director (ED)

ED (general)

Railway Systems (RSY)

RSY (general)

ERTMS & Telematics (ERTMS)

Rolling Stock & Fixed Installations (FIRST)
Safety & Operations (SAFO)

Planning & Approvals Delivery (PAD)
PAD (general)

ERTMS Trackside Approval (TA)

Portfolio Management & Support

Safety Certification (SSC)

Vehicle Authorisation (VA)

Analysis & Monitoring (AAM)

AAM (general)

Analysis

Monitoring

Registers & Databases

Executive Office & Communication (EXO)
EXO (general)

Data Information & Governance
International Relations

Stakeholders Relations, Academy & Communications
Corporate Assurance & Performance (CAP)
CAP (general)

Corporate Performance

Resources & Support (RSU)

RSU (general)

Human Resources

ITFM

to be assigned

Grand Total

一  =  =
= HUN BR DG AN DD

166

一一o

OUND

36

8
70
9

Grants, Contrib. & SLAs

CA               SNE

Grand Total
工Posts

8
3     73
9

ORGANISATIONAL CHART | 67

--- Page 70 ---
Annexes

Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity
2023 - 2025(?")

Table 7 - Resource allocation 2022 - 2025(*”)

Revenue
source                         Budget €                          Budget €                           Budget €                            Budget €
EU cont.                                      6,685,676                            38      8,401,150                              .         9,365,397        50.1                   ;          9,594,329
StSt 1       F&C              38.8      30.8      8.0       7,038,812      29.1      22.3        6.8      6,553,584       28.9      22.1      6.8        6,616,408       28.8      22.0      68         6,718,901
GCSLA            23        0.0      23          260,000        31        24         0.7         250,000          3.0         24       0.7                   0          15         0.9       0.7                     0
StSt 2-3 | EU cont.            3.6        3.0      0.6          599,968        3.6        29         0.7         669,927          3.6         29       0.7           633,106          3.6         29       0.7            644,620
stst 4     EU cont.       25.1     16.1     9.0     4,334,280    224    18.8      3.6    3,874,555      241     20.1     40      4,205,655      23.1     19.1     4.0       4,095,195
F&C                 NM人                                                   N/A            5.2           40             1.2           1,562,773              5.1             39          1.2             1,566,466              49            3.7          1.2                1,550,225
StSt 5       EU cont.           0.0        0.0      0.0                 0       0.0       0.0        0.0                0         0.0        0.0      0.0                  0         0.0        0.0      0.0                   0
StSt 6       EU cont.           24       2.3      0.1          384,592        3.1        3.1         0.0        566,611          3.1         3.1       0.0          577,994         3.1         3.1       0.0            588,794
stst7       EU cont.           78        70      08       1,938,904       89       41         48      1,858,993         90        41       48        1,924,538         90        41       48          1,949,136
GCSLA            4.0        0.0      40          580,735         1.0        0.2         0.8                 0          0.0         0.0       0.0                   0          0.0         0.0       0.0                     0
StSt 8        EU cont.          51.6      43.2      84       8,819,071       294      19.9         9.5       4,851,280        30.4       20.9       9.5         5,162,438        29.3        198       9.5          5,057,693
StSt 9        EU cont.          249       16.2      87       4,182,653       265      18.5         8.0       5,064,047         26.5       18.5       8.0         5,120,799        26.5        18.5       8.0          5,202,258
MaAC*)     EU cont.          N/A                                  N/A      168      14.5        2.3      2,933,025        19.3       16.7      26        2,493,829        18.4       158      2.6          3,018,845
F&C                  N/A                                          N/A          6.3         49          14        1,554,241            3.8          29        0.9          1,812,452            3.8          29        0.9            1,750,247
EU contribution       154.7, 123.6) 31.1, 26,945,144) 156.1) 123.4    32.7 | 28,219,589    166.0, 132.6 33.4) 29,483,757    163.0, 129.6) 33.4     30,150,871
2 Fees and charges           38.8       30.8       8.0; 7,038,812) 40.6) 31.2         9.5 9,670,598         37.8       28.9       8.9        9,995,325         37.5       28.6       8.9        10,019,373
Total EU + F&C                 193.4, 154.4| 39.1) 33,983,956 196.8 154.6| 42.2(*) 37,890,187        203.9, 161.5| 42.4) 39,479,082        200.5, 158.2) 42.4         40,170,244
2 Grants, Cont. [...]            6.3       0.0; 6.3        840,735| 4.132       2.6        1.5| 250,000(*°)         3.0        2.4      0.7                   0          1.5        0.9      0.7                    0
Grand Total                       199.8，154.4，45.4| 34,824,691, 200.8 157.2| 43.6| 38,140,187| 206.9， 163.9 43.0 39,479,082, 202.0， 159.0， 43.0, 40,170,244

() Staff numbers — in line with EU Draft Budget “2.1.2 European Union Agency for Railways — ERA” — include statutory staff only (establishment plan and external staff); as a consequence, Structural service providers, and Interim workers are not
included. External staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements are shown on separate lines.

(#) Title 1 & 2 budget distributed pro rata based on the FTE allocation. FTE and budget allocation for 2024-2025 is tentative.

(In 2022, SSC-related activities were included under Strategic Statement 1

(3) ERA management and administration (incl. Meetings, missions, other costs), in 2022 shown under Strategic Statement 1 (Fees and charges), 8, and 9.

(5) Distribution of resources is based on the real allocation of FTEs between projects/services. While 3 CAs are envisaged for System Pillar and 1 CA for IPA in terms of headcount, other staff with TA contracts are also allocated to support these
streams of work.

(3) Amount on Grants, Contrib. & SLAs reflect the actual cash flows, not the real staff cost

68 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 71 ---
Annex Ill. Financial Resources 2023-2025

T 1. Revenue

i- General revenues

Table 8 - Overview of revenues

2022                                                                            2023
Revenues (EUR)                                                                 Estimated                                                                 Budget forecast
2. EU contribution                                                                                               26,278,423                                                                      27,418,274
1.43.+4.+5.+6.+ 7. Other revenue                                                                     7,705,533                                                                     10,471,913
Of which 1. Revenues from fees and charges                                                                        7,038,812                                                                                    9,670,598
Chui uiicomnpcanionion egy MP                   pe
Total revenues                                                                                               33,983,956                                                                    37,890,187

Table 9 - General revenues

2024                     2025
VAR 2023/2022
Revenues                                                                                         Agency request | Budget forecast                                  Envisaged           Envisaged
(9%6)                      (EUR)                    (EUR)
1. Revenues from fees and charges.                                     4,138,980             7,038,812             9,826,585             9,670,598                  20.3%             9,995,325            10,019,373
2. EU contribution*                                                        27,061,160           26,278,423           28,736,506           27,418,274                   43%           28,645,912            29,294,000
or pees’ revenues deriving from previous years’                59,486                    114224                     69,638                     69639                     39.0%                              _                              _

3.Third countries contribution (incl. EEA/EFTA and
candidate countries)

of which EEA/EFTA (excl. Switzerland)                        693,999           656,721           719,538           801,315            22.0%           837,845           856,871
of which candidate countries                                                                                                   -                                                              =                                                              -                               -

693,999               656,721                719,538               801,315                  22.0%               837,845               856,871

4. Other contributions                                                                                          -                                                 =                                                 -                        -
5. Administrative operations                                                    -               -               =                               o               -

of which interest generated by funds paid by
the Commission by way of the EU contribution                                                                             -                                                                  -                                                                  -                                 -
(FFR Art. 58)

6. Revenues from services rendered against payment                 10,000                10,000                                              -              -100.0%                       -                       -
7. Correction of budgetary imbalances                                                                     -                                                 -                                                 -                        -
Total revenues                                                                                          31,904,139              33,983,956              39,282,629              37,890,187                            8.3%              39,479,082              40,170,244

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2023-2025 | 69

--- Page 72 ---
Annexes

ii- Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements

Table 10 - Overview on additional EU funding

2023
Budget forecast

Revenues
(EUR)

840,735                                                                          250,000

Total revenues

Table 11 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements

2023
2021                                                          VAR 2023/2022       2024            2025

Revenues                                          Budget                                    Agency request | Budget forecast            (9%)

Envisaged       Envisaged

(EUR)                                     EUR)                (EUR)                                     (EUR)               (EUR)

Additional EU funding stemming from Grants (FFR Art.7)             300,400                580,735                        0                    0G67               -100.0%
260,000               250,000               250,000                  -3.8%

Additional EU funding stemming from Contribution                  260,000
Agreements (FFR Art.7)                                                           "

Additional EU funding stemming from Service-Level
Agreements (FFR Art. 43.2)                                                    35376                        9                        o                       o                                                                         0
Total                                                                           595,776             840,735              250,000             250,000                                                                     p.m.

For the list of agreements and further details, refer to Annex XI Plan for grant, contribution or service-level agreements.

名) Due to the project extension to 31/12/2023 the remaining amount of € 192,464 from 2022 will be spent in 2023.

70 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 73 ---
T2.Expenditure
iii - Expenditure

Table 12 - Expenditure

Expenditure
(EUR)                       Commitment approp

ions | Payment appropri

Commitment approp

Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                            21,966,714                              21,966,714                              23,473,646                              23,473,646
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                               1,862,438                               1,862,438                               2,096,800                               2,096,800
Title 3 - Operational expenditure                                                 3,115,992                              3,115,992                              2,649,143                              2,649,143
Total EU contribution                                                                                   26,945,144                                       26,945,144                                       28,219,589                                       28,219,589
Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                             3,386,620                                3,386,620                                6,561,504                                6,561,504
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                                207,459                                 207,459                                 524,200                                 524,200
Title 3 - Operational expenditure                                                 3,444,733                              3,444,733                              2,584,894                             2,584,894
Total Fees and charges                                                                                   7,038,812                                         7,038,812                                         9,670,598                                         9,670,598
Total EU contribution + Fees & charges                                          33,983,956                                  33,983,956                                  37,890,187                                  37,890,187
Grant Agreements                                                                        580,735                                  580,735                                           -                                           -
Contribution Agreements                                                               260,000                                  260,000                                  250,000                                  250,000
Service-Level Agreements                                                                       -                                           -                                           -                                           -
Total Grants, Contrib. & SLAs                                                        840,735  ;                                840,735                           ;      250,000                                  250,000
Grand Total                                                                                                      34,824,691                                        34,824,691                                       38,140,187                                       38,140,187

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2023-2025 | 71

--- Page 74 ---
Annexes

iv- Commitment appropriations

Table 13 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)

2023 Budget
Titles & Chapters                                        2021Budget               2022 Budget                                                                                 VAR 2023/2022
(EU contribution)                                               (EUR)                           (EUR)                   Agency request           Budget forecast                    (%)
(EUR)                              (EUR)

Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                                   21,321,523                  21,966,714                    25,083,777                    23,473,646                             6.9%
Salaries & allowances                                                                    21,007,009                  21,488,714                   24,487,583                   22,941,729                          6.8%

- Of which establishment plan posts                              18,545,594           18,806,214             21,531,105             20,177,137                 7.3%

- Of which external personnel                                                                           2,461,415                          2,682,500                            2,956,478                            2,764,592                                    3.1%
Expenditure relating to staff recruitment                                                 47,923                       127,000                       141,148                       117,600                          -74%
Employer's pension contributions                                                                                           0                                                            0
Mission expenses                                                                                  957                        10,000                          8,160                          8,000                        -20.0%
Socio-medical infrastructure                                                          1,814                      50,000                      72,014                      60,000                      20.0%
Training                                                                                                          88,819                          125,000                           144,029                           120,000                              -4.0%
External services                                                                    168,274                    145,000                    212,075                    207,917                      43.4%
Receptions, events and representation                                                    677                        1,000                        2,448                         2,400                       140.0%
Social welfare                                                                                     6,050                        20,000                         16,320                         16,000                        -20.0%
Other Staff related expenditure                                                                                                    0                                                                0
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                            1,709,740                      1,862,438                      2,138,736                     2,096,800                            12.6%
Rental of buildings and associated costs                                              1,018,369                    1,082,582                     1,010,208                       990,400                          -8.5%
Information, communication technology and data processing                      563,811                        701,253                         973,488                         954,400                           36.1%
Movable property and associated costs                                                39,166                       31,826                       29,376                       28,800                         -9.5%
Current administrative expenditure                                                                4456                             3,428                            27,744                            27,200                           693.5%
Postage / telecommunications                                                             81,640                        37,691                         93,840                         92,000                        144.1%
Meeting expenses                                                                                                                     0                                                                0
Running costs in connection with operational activities                                                                 0                                                            0
Information and publishing                                                               2,298                        5,658                        4,080                        4,000                       -29.3%
Studies                                                                                                                                                         0                                                                           0
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure                                                                             0                                                              0

72 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 75 ---
Titles & Chapters
(EU contribution)

2023 Budget

Agency request

(EUR)

Budget forecast

(EUR)

VAR 2023/2022

(%)

Title 3 - Operational expenditure
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements

- Of which Strategic Statement 1

- Of which Strategic Statements 2 & 3

- Of which Strategic Statement 4

- Of which Strategic Statement 5

- Of which Strategic Statement 6

- Of which Strategic Statement 7

- Of which Strategic Statement 8

- Of which Strategic Statement 9

- Of which ERA management and administration
Other operational expenditure
Total

2021 Budget            2022 Budget
(EUR)                         (EUR)
2,939,558                 3,115,992

1,302,879                    1,951,491
335,055

15,000

279,901

681,707

474,387

165,441

1,636,679              1,164,501
25,970,821                26,945,144

2,233,531
1,209,041

15,000
279,901

681,707
474,387
165,441
206,435
1,024,490
29,456,044

2,649,143
1,863,180
517,460
93,688
208,953

0

30,400
625,246
357,800
594

29,040
785,964
28,219,589

-15.0%
45%
54.4%

524.6%
25.3%

8.3%
24.6%
99.6%

-32.5%
4.7%

Table 14 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)

Titles & Chapters

(Fees and charges)

VAR 2023/2022
(%)

Title 4.1 - Staff expenditure
Salaries & allowances
- Of which establishment plan posts
- Of which external personnel
Expenditure relating to staff recruitment
Employer's pension contributions
Mission expenses
Socio-medical infrastructure
Training
External services
Receptions, events and representation
Social welfare
Other Staff related expenditure

2021 Budget           2022 Budget
(EUR)                      (EUR)

2,287,365                    3,386,620
1,821,341            2,885,000
1,821,341                 2,520,000
365,000
0
466,024                   501,620
0

2023 Budget
Agency request        Budget forecast

(EUR)                          (EUR)
5,392,628                            6,561,504
4,762,553                     5,947,499
4,335,615                      5,113,423
426,938                        834,076
35,287                        29,400
481,026                       481,026
2,040                          2,000
18,004                        15,000
36,007                        30,000
53,019                         51,979
612                             600
4,080                          4,000
0

93.7%
106.2%
102.9%
128.5%

-4.1%

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2023-2025 | 73

--- Page 76 ---
Annexes

Titles & Chapters

(Fees and charges)

Title 4.2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure
Rental of buildings and associated costs
Information, communication technology and data processing
Movable property and associated costs
Current administrative expenditure
Postage / telecommunications
Meeting expenses
Running costs in connection with operational activities
Information and publishing
Studies
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure
Title 4.3 - Operational expenditure
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements
- Of which Strategic Statement 1
- Of which Strategic Statements 2-3
- Of which Strategic Statement 4
- Of which Strategic Statement 5
- Of which Strategic Statement 6
- Of which Strategic Statement 7
- Of which Strategic Statement 8
- Of which Strategic Statement 9
- Of which ERA management and administration
Other operational expenditure
Total

2021 Budget
(EUR)

52,317
52,317

1,268,511
1,268,511

3,608,193

2022 Budget
(EUR)

207,459
108,549
98,910

3,444,733
3,204,733
3,047,804

156,929

240,000
7,038,812

2023 Budget
Agency request        Budget forecast

(EUR)                          (EUR)
534,684                     524,200
252,552                       247,600
243,372                       238,600
7,344                          7,200
6,936                          6,800
23,460                         23,000
0
0
1,020                           1,000
0
0
3,899,273                   2,584,894
3,520,718                     2,388,403
2,928,689                      1,729,003
0
659,400
0
0
229,715                                 0
362,314                                 0
0
0
378,555                        196,491
9,826,585                  9,670,598

VAR 2023/2022
(%)

152.7%
128.1%
141.2%

-25.0%
-25.5%
~43.3%

-100.0%

-18.1%
37.4%

v- Payment appropriations

Payment appropriations in current and planning years are identical to commitment appropriations

74 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 77 ---
T3.Budget outturn and cancellation ofappropriations

Table 15 -Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

Budget outturn (EUR)                   UL ze 20192020021

Reserve from the previous years' surplus (+)

Revenue actually received (+)

Payments made (-)

Carry-over of appropriations (-)

Cancellation of appropriations carried over (+)

Adjustment for carry over of assigned revenue appropriations from previous
year (+)

Exchange rate differences (+/-)

Adjustment for negative balance from previous year (-)

Total

80,722
28,850,412
-26,386,114
-3,509,588
122,715

1,045,234

-2,780
-80,722
119,879

119,879
28,644,227
-26,041,310
-2,931,959
54,280

335,358

-1,110
119,879
59,486

59,486
30,761,007
-27,440,679
-4,097,690
106,232

785,738

-383
-59,486
114,225

114,225
32,834,965
-29,908,642
-3,894,958
30,110

1,008,478

-315
-114,225
69,638

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2023-2025 | 75

--- Page 78 ---
Annexes

Annex IV. Human Resources 2023-2025
— quantitative

T 4. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff
A. Statutory staff and SNE(**)

Table 16 - Establishment plan posts

Human resources                                                                                2021
FTE
corresponding | Actually filled as | Occupancy rate
to authorised    of 31/12/2021         %
budget
Administrators (AD)                                                                                               114                                                     1209)                     134()
Assistants (AST)                                                                                                               97%                     348                    32(*')
Assistants/Secretaries (AST/SC)                                                                                                                        0                        0
Total establishment plan posts                                                                                                      98%                       154                        166
FTE                                                                                    FTE                        FTE
corresponding | Actually filled as | Execution rate | corresponding | corresponding
to authorised       of 31/12/2021                 %                 to authorised        to authorised
budget                                                                              budget                  budget

Authorised staff | Envisaged staff | Envisaged staff | Envisaged staff

Establishment plan posts

Envisaged FTE | Envisaged FTE

Contract Agents (CA)

Seconded National Experts (SNE)
Total external

Total staff

(®) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table, but under Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements below
(2) One AST post converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 299

(©) Of which 27 assigned to Fees and charges

(8) Of which 1 assigned to Fees and charges

(®) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

(®) Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

76 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 79 ---
B. Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements

Table 17 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements(“) (4)

Human resources                                          2022                                      2023                                      2024                                      2025
External staff financed from agreements                 Envisaged FTE                      Envisaged FTE                      Envisaged FTE                      Envisaged FTE
Contract Agents (CA)                                                    7                                                   4                                                   3                                                   p.m.
Seconded National Experts (SNE)                        0                                    0                                    0                                    0
eee |Se a sss

C. Other Human Resources

Table 18 - Structural service providers(*)

Structural service providers                                                                                                                                            Actually in place as of 31/12/2021

Infrastructure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
IT - Service Desk                                                                                                                                                                           4
IT - Security                                                                                                                                                                           1
Registers (including OSS)                                                                                                                                                          3
(GUIS softwaremanagemenVdevelapment tt                                                               3
Total structural service providers                                                                                                                                                12

Table 19 - Interim workers

Total interim workers                                                                                                  0

(“) For the list of agreements and further details on the split of FTEs between these agreements, refer to Annex XI Plan for grant, contribution or service-level agreements.
(®) Extension of the IPA grant agreement to 2023 under negotiation.
(*) Service providers are contracted by a private company and carry out specialised outsourced tasks of a horizontal/support nature.

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUANTITATIVE | 77

--- Page 80 ---
Annexes

T 5. Multi-annual staff policy plan 2021-2025

Table 20 - Temporary Agents

2022                                     2023                                     2024                                     2025
Temporary         Authorised budget           Actually filled 31/12           Authorised budget            Authorised budget               Request of ERA                  Request of ERA

‘Agents             Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary

posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts

AD 16                                                                     0

AD 15                                    1                                 0                                                                                                   1                                 1
AD 14                                   0                                1                                                                                                   0                                0
AD 13                                    0                                0                                                                                                   1                                 1
AD 12                                   4                                1                                                                                                   4                                6
AD 11                                   10                                6                                                                                                  16                               19
AD 10                                   19                               22                                                                                                  18                               17
AD9                                         29                                   19                                                                                                               22                                   25
AD8                                         21                                    25                                                                                                                22                                   20
AD7                                         15                                    14                                                                                                               24                                   28
AD6                                         17                                   24                                                                                                                17                                   12
AD5                                          0                                     2                                     2                                     9                                     9                                     5
Total AD                                  116                                 114                                1205"                                134                                 134                                 134
AST 11                                   0                                0                                0                                0                                0                                0
AST 10                                   0                                0                                0                                0                                0                                0
AST9                                         2                                     2                                     2                                     1                                      1                                     2
AST8                                         5                                     2                                     3                                     3                                     4                                     4
AST7                                         5                                     3                                     4                                     4                                     4                                     4
AST6                                         6                                     6                                    4                                    4                                     4                                     5
AST 5                                         8                                     5                                     7                                     7                                     9                                     9
AST 4                                         9                                    10                                    9                                    10                                    8                                     8
AST 3                                         0                                     6                                     5                                     3                                     2                                     0
AST 2                                         0                                     0                                     0                                     0                                     0                                     0
AST1                                     0                                0                                0                                0                                0                                0
Total AST                                               35                                                 34                                               34°!                                               32                                                 32                                                 32
Total AST/SC |     o_              O               O              oO __|     Lo     ——     —_O_
Total TAs                              151                             148                             154                             166                             166                             166

(”) One AST 6 post converted to AD 6 as per MB Decision n° 299

78 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 81 ---
Table 21 - Contract Agents

Contract Agents

ERA staff (External personnel)

Function Group IV
Function Group III
Function Group II
Function Group |
Total

Contract Agents

External staff financed from
Grants, Contrib. & SLAs
Function Group IV
Function Group III
Function Group II
Function Group |
Total

FTE
correspon
the authorised
budget 2021

16

12

8

0
36                                  N/A

FTE

31/12/2021

ling to | Executed FTE as of | Actually filled as

of 31/12/2021

34

corresponding to | Executed FTE as of | Actually filled as

the authorised      31/12/2021

budget 2021

of 31/12/2021

FTE
corresponding to
the authorised
budget 2022

23

36
FTE
corresponding to
the authorised
budget 2022

FTE request for
2023

23

36

FTE request for
2023

FTE request for

FTE request for

FTE request for
2025

FTE request for
2025

Table 22 - Seconded National Experts

Seconded National Experts

Total

FTE
correspon
the authorised
budget 2022

4                                   N/A

31/12/2022

of 31/12/2022

FTE
corresponding to
the authorised
budget 2023

FTE request for
2024

FTE request for

FTE request for
2026

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUANTITATIVE | 79

--- Page 82 ---
Annexes

T6.Recruitment forecasts 2023 following retirement/mobility or new requested posts

Table 23 - Recruitment forecast
Type of contract
(Official, TA or CA)

Due to foreseen retirement/| New post requested due to
mobility                        additional tasks

Project Officer                                         p.m.                                   12 TAs                                   p.m.                                     p.m.

TA / Official(**)

Job title in the Agency

Internal                                           External

™ Engagement of additional TA and CA (Project Officers), taking into account the priorities from the Strengthening Plan Action Plan 2023-2027
™ Open posts for SNEs to be filled from Calls for expression of interest published on the Agency's website

Foreseen retirement in 2023: 3

Inter-agency mobility 2022: p.m.

(®) Function group/grade of recruitment internal (brackets) and external (single grade) foreseen for publication
(®) Recruitment Function Group (I, Il, Ill and IV)

80 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 83 ---
Annex V. Human
Resources 2023-2025 —
qualitative

A. Recruitment (engagement) policy

Implementing rules in place

Table 24 - Implementing rules in place

Model decision

Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015 as

Engagement of TA        Model Decision C(2015)1509            x                     PETABdeckion (sella)
，                                                            Applied by analogy since 02/10/2019 as
Engagement of CA       Model Decision C(2019)3016            x                     PETMBekeiionfGsslbslonj
Middle management “| Model decision C(2018)2542              x                        Applied by amalagl》 since 25/06/2019 /as
per MB decision(**)
，                                                            Applied by analogy since 25/06/2019 as
Type of posts               Model Decision C(2018)8800             x                       per MB decisionGy)

The following general principles guide the application of the legal framework concerning
the Agency staff:

a.) The core of the Agency staff consists of Temporary Agents. All Temporary Agent
positions have been identified as long-term positions. Due to the budgetary and
establishment plan constraints the Agency is obliged to also engage Contract
Agents in order to fulfil its mission;

b.) Temporary and Contract Agents are treated equivalently as far as possible.

In addition, it should be noted the Agency does not employ officials. However, there are
cases where EU officials have been engaged following an external selection procedure
and have therefore acquired the status of Temporary Agent in the Agency (whilst remain-
ing an official on unpaid leave in their institution of origin).

i- Selection and engagement procedures:

The procedure for selection and engagement of Temporary Agents and Contract Agents
is based on Articles 27-34 of the Staff Regulations and Articles 12-15 and 82-84 of the
Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (CEOS), the
related Implementing Rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents and Con-
tract Agents, the Financial Regulation (European Commission's Framework and that of the
Agency), the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour and the data protection rules.

The Agency also makes use of the EPSO CAST lists accessible to Agencies for the engage-
ment of Contract Agents. Because of the Agreement on the European Economic Area
nationals of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are eligible for working for the Agency.

() Decision n°204 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency for Railways on middle management staff
(2) Decision n°203 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency for Railways on types of post and post.
titles in ERA

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 81

--- Page 84 ---
Annexes

82 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

The selection procedures for the engagement of Temporary Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision N° 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agen-
cy laying down the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the
engagement and use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS.

Depending on the function and the level of tasks and within the limits authorised by the
establishment plan of the Agency, Temporary Agents are engaged at the following entry
grades:

= AST 1 to AST 4 for the function group AST

= AD 5 to AD8 for the function group AD
For managerial posts or highly specialised posts, the Agency can engage Temporary
Agents at grades AD 9 and AD10 or at grade AD12 for Heads of Department.

The duration of contracts for Temporary Agents is governed by Decision N° ERA-ED-
DEC-1109-2015. Staff holding a long-term post are normally offered an initial contract with
a duration of four years with the possibility of renewal. The standard practice for a first re-
newal is normally for a two-year period and any further renewal is for an indefinite period.

For staff on short-term employment, the duration of the contract depends on the dura-
tion of the tasks to be carried out. At ERA, the duration of those contracts is predominantly
related to the availability and duration of grants, or to a specific time determined project.
In very rare cases it is to cover long-term absences.

The Agency is launching the following types of calls, published on ERA website's Recruit-
ment portal:

Call for Interest (partial internal re-assignment): CFI/ERA/...

Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IM/ERA/AD/....
Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IM/ERA/AST/...
Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IAM/ERA/AD/...
Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IAM/ERA/AST/...
External calls for Temporary Agents-Administrators: ERA/AD/2021/...
External calls for Temporary Agents-Assistants: ERA/AST/...

External calls for Contract Agents: ERA/CA/2021/...

ii- Temporary agents

The ERA Regulation 2016/796 which entered into force in 2016 makes no distinction be-
tween posts for long- term and short-term employment. Still a post can, in accordance
with Article 16 of Decision N° 121, be defined to be for short-term employment when it
involves tasks of a limited duration.

The decision to renew contracts of employment of Temporary Agents occupying a long-
term post is taken by the Executive Director based on two considerations: the continuity
of the post and the competences and performances of the jobholder, in accordance with
Decision N° ERA-ED-DEC-678-2013 and the Procedure PRO_STA_01 on the “renewal and
non-renewal of contracts of employment before the expiry date”

If a TA or former TA is awarded a second contract of employment in the same function
group, this contract shall be considered as a renewal in the sense of Article 8 of the CEOS if
the period between the end of the first contract and the starting date of the new contract
is less than 6 months. If the period between the two contracts of employment is 6 months
or more or if the new contract is in a different function group, the second contract of em-
ployment shall be considered a new contract of employment.

--- Page 85 ---
- Contract agents

The selection procedures for the engagement of Contract Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency
on the general provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the con-
ditions of employment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof.

In accordance with Article 85 of the CEOS, contract staff can be engaged for a fixed pe-
riod of at least three months and not more than five years. Contract Agents are engaged
for their specific competence in different areas of administration (finance, HR, IT, logistics,
legal, audit, quality management), in the railway domain or to perform manual or admin-
istrative tasks.

This type of contract is usually used to meet specific needs such as:

= Administrative tasks;
= Coping with temporary peaks in workloads;
= Launching projects or new activities for which long-term commitment in
terms of staffing is unclear;
= Replacing staff on long-term absences such as maternity leave, long-term sick
leave or unpaid leave;
However, increasingly ERA has also engaged Contract Agents for other (long-term) tasks,
such as:

= Administrative and Logistician Support Agents
= Assistants
= Project Officers

iv - Seconded National Experts(*”)

Seconded National Experts (SNEs) are staff employed by a national, regional or local pub-
lic administration or a public intergovernmental organisation who are seconded to the
Agency so that it can use their expertise in a particular field. SNEs are seconded from
their national employer to the Agency's operational units on the basis of their specific
competency and technical expertise in the railway domain, based on Decision n° 173 of
the Management Board of the European Union Agency for Railways laying down rules
on the secondment to the Agency of seconded national experts and national experts in
professional training.

A possibility to mandate ‘cost-free’ SNEs also exists, where the Agency does not pay any
allowances or cover any of the expenses related to the performance of their duties during
their secondment, although the Agency does not deploy such SNEs at the moment.

SNEs assist the Agency staff and cannot perform (middle) management duties. The initial
period of secondment may not be less than six months or more than two years. It may be
renewed once or more up to a total period not exceeding four years. Exceptionally, the
Agency's Executive Director may authorise one more extension of the secondment for
the maximum duration of one year at the end of the four-year period. Each secondment
and extension are subject to an exchange of letters. An SNE may be seconded once again
provided that the conditions of secondment still exist and a period of at least six years has
elapsed between the end of the previous secondment and the new secondment unless
the previous secondments lasted for less than four years.

(®) SNEs are not employed by the Agency

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 83

--- Page 86 ---
Annexes

84 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

v- Trainees

Professional traineeships last 10 months and are managed in accordance with Decision N°
ERA-ED-DEC-1063-2015, depending on budget availability.

vi- Structural service providers(53)

At ERA, the majority of service providers are intra muros IT consultants.

B. Appraisal and reclassification / promotions

Implementing rules in place

Table 25 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and
reclassification / promotion

Reclassification | Model Decision                      Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016
of TA                C(2015)9560                         as per AB decision (see below)

Reclassification | Model Decision                      Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016
of CA                C(2015)9561                           as per AB decision (see below)

Model Decision                       Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015.

Appraisal of TA

C(2013)8985                         as per AB decision (see below)
，               Model Decision                       Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015
Bppralsal oneny    C(2014)2226          x             as per AB decision (see below)

Concerning the performance appraisals and staff reclassification and promotions, the
Agency applies:

® Decision N° 132 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency
on general implementing provisions regarding Article 87(3) of the Conditions of
Employment of Other Servants of the European Union

® Decision N° 133 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency lay-
ing down general implementing provisions regarding Article 54 of the Conditions
of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union

® Decision N° 122 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency on
the general provisions for implementing Article 43 of the Staff Regulations and im-
plementing the first paragraph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations for temporary
staff; and

® Decision N° 123 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency
on the general provisions for implementing Article 87(1) of the Conditions of Em-
ployment of Other Servants of the European Union and implementing the first
paragraph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations.

They were first implemented for the appraisal and reclassification exercise of 2016. Since
2016, the Agency adopted and implemented the rules for the reclassification of Contract
Agents.

() Structural service providers are not employed by the Agency

--- Page 87 ---
T 1. Reclassification of temporary staff

Table 26 - Reclassification of temporary staff(*)

Average seniority in the grade among reclassified staff

Group and Grade                                                                                                                                                                          Actual average over       Average over 5
5 years                    years(55)
AD5                                                                                                                                                                  p.m.                          p.m.                           28
AD6                                      33                            43                            29                            19                           p.m.                          p.m.                           28
AD7                                      27                            48                            45                            46                           p.m.                          p.m.                           28
AD8                                      5.0                            5.4                            37                            24                           p.m.                          p.m.                           3.0
AD9                                      5.2                            38                            56                            45                           p.m.                          p.m.                           40
AD 10                                                           49                        58                        95                        p.m.                       p.m.                        40
AD 11                                                            48                                                                              p.m.                       p.m.                        40
AD 12                                                                                                                                             p.m.                       p.m.                        6.7
AD 13                                                                                                                                             p.m.                       p.m.                        67
AST 1                                                                                                                                                                  p.m.                          p.m.                           3.0
AST2                                     3.8                            43                                                                                         p.m.                          p.m.                           3.0
AST 3                                     3.8                            48                            45                            48                           p.m.                          p.m.                           3.0
AST 4                                                                    43                                                                                          p.m.                          p.m.                           3.0
AST 5                                                                    48                            3.6                                                          p.m.                          p.m.                           40
AST6                                     3.8                            3.8                                                                                         p.m.                          p.m.                           40
AST7                                                                                                                                   48                           p.m.                          p.m.                           40
AST8                                                                                                    58                                                          p.m.                          p.m.                           40
AST9                                                                                                                                                                 p.m.                          p.m.                          N/A
AST 10(59                                                                                                                                                            p.m.                          p.m.                           5.0
AST/SC 1                                                                                                                                                                            40
AST/SC 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0
AST/SC 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59
AST/SC 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67
AST/SC 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            83

(©) Reclassification exercise of 2022 not yet finalised
(5) According to Decision C(2015)9563
(%) Senior Assistant

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 85

--- Page 88 ---
Annexes

T 2. Reclassification of contract staff

Table 27 - Reclassification of contract staff(*’)

Average number of years

Function Group                                                                 Staff in activity at            How many staff members | Average number of years in       injgrade of reclassified
01.01.2021                 were reclassified in 2021       grade of reclassified staff                   staff(°*)
18                                       0                                        0                                       N/A                                     N/A
17                                        1                                         1                                       N/A                        Between 6 and 10 years
CAFGIV                                               16                                      3                                       0                                      14                         Between 5 and 7 years
15                                              9                                               4                                              29                              Between 4 and 6 years
14                                       6                                         1                                        28                          Between 3 and 5 years
13                                        3                                        0                                       2.5                          Between 3 and 5 years
12                                        0                                        0                                       N/A                                     N/A
11                                        1                                         1                                       N/A                        Between 6 and 10 years
CA FG III                                              10                                    0                                     0                                    2.9                       Between 5 and 7 years
9                                               3                                               0                                             N/A                             Between 4 and 6 years
8                                        0                                        0                                       N/A                         Between 3 and 5 years
7                                        4                                        4                                       N/A                                     N/A
CAFGII                                              6                                     2                                     1                                    24                       Between 6 and 10 years
5                                      0                                      0                                     3.7                        Between 5 and 7 years
4                                        0                                        0                                       N/A                         Between 3 and 5 years
3                                        0                                        0                                       N/A                                     N/A
CAFGI                                                2                                      2                                      2                                    N/A                       Between 6 and 10 years
1                                         0                                        0                                       48                          Between 3 and 5 years

(°’) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table
() According to Decision C(2015)9561

‘86 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 89 ---
Mobility policy

Mobility within the Agency

Decision N° 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency laying down
the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the engagement and
use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS (adopted on 25.11.2016) and De-
cision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency on the general
provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the conditions of em-
ployment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof enshrine the
scenarios for internal mobility for TA 2(f) and CA.

The Agency considers internal mobility when vacancies arise, but due to the very specific,
technical competences of a big part of the staff, internal mobility remains limited.

Furthermore, members of the Agency staff can apply for vacant posts within the Agency
advertised externally. A supplementary agreement in accordance with Article 10 of the
CEOS will be concluded as required if existing staff get a new job.

Mobility between Union Agencies

The implementing rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents 2(f) and Con-
tract Agents define the scope of mobility between EU Agencies. A very limited number
of the support staff who have left the Agency in previous years have accepted TA/CA
positions in other Agencies.

Increasingly staff members who took up long-term Temporary Agent positions at the
Agency come from other EU Agencies.

Mobility between the agencies and the institutions

Some posts are filled following an external selection procedure by staff coming from other
European institutions (in particular the Commission), although the number remains small.

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 87

--- Page 90 ---
Annexes

C. Gender representation

T 1. Data on 01/09/2022 statutory staff (only officials, TAs and CAs)

Table 28 - Data on 01/09/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Esta    ment      rar                Official                    Temporary                 em                Grand Total
evel
plan posts                                        Staff                                           Staff                                           Staff                                           Staff
Administrator
level (AD + CA                                                              15.5%                              27%                              18.2%
FG IV)
FSmsls                Assistant level
9                          9                           9
(AST + CA FG Fill)                                                      24                 12.8%                 9                  48%                 33                 17.6%
Total Female                                                                   53                   28.3%                   14                    7.5%                    67                   35.8%
Administrator
level (AD + CA                                                            89                  47.6%                  18                   96%                  107                 57.2%
FG IV)
Kites                   Assistant level
9                          9                          9
(AST + CA FG Fill)                                            9               48%               4               2.1%              13              7.0%
RE LO enetrl il Duel iced dns lb el tl banat)
Total                                                                                                                                                               151                            80.7%                             36                             19.3%                            187                             100%

External staff
financed from

Official                                                    Temporary                                           Contract Agents                                          Grand Total

Level

Grants, Contrib.
& SLAs

Administrator
level (AD + CA                                                1               0.5%               1               0.5%               1               0.5%
FG IV)
Famells                Assistant level                                                                                               e                                                 e                                                 e
(AST + CA FG Hl)                                  2            1.1%           2            1.1%           2            1.1%
Total Female                                                                                    3                          1.6%                         3                          1.6%                         3                          1.6%
Administrator
level (AD + CA                                               4               2.1%               4               2.1%               4               2.1%
Male              FG IV)
Assistant level
(AST + CA FG Hl)                                                             0.0%               0               0.0%                               0.0%
ssp Total Me   |e te | eth     2 _||__ bth
Total                                                        7           3.7%           7           3.7%           7           3.7%

88 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 91 ---
Table 29 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle and Senior management(2?)

Managers

D. Geographical balance

T 2. Officials, TAs and CAs

Table 30 - Data on 01/09/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Nationality                                   AD+CAFGIV                                               AST+CAFGL-III
Establishment plan posts              Number                    % of total staff                    Number                    % of total staff                    Number                    % of total staff
L
1                                                                                                                                                                    1

Austrian                                                                                                            0.5%                                            0                                            0.0%                                                                                          0.5%
Belgian                                         25                            13.4%                            19                            10.2%                            44                            23.5%
Bulgarian                                           1                                0.5%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
Croatian                                        4                             2.1%                             0                             0.0%                             4                             2.1%
Cypriot                                             1                                05%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
Czech                                               1                                05%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
Danish                                          2                             1.1%                             1                              0.5%                             3                             1.6%
Estonian                                                                                                                                                                                         0                                0.0%
Finnish                                              1                                05%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
French                      qd)                   17                               9.1%                               14                               75%                               31                               16.6%
German                    全                                                     48%                                0                                0.0%                                9                                4.8%
Total                      5              71.4%              2              28.6%              7              100%

(®) Staff who is defined as middle manager by the applicable General Implementing provisions on middle management

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 89

--- Page 92 ---
Annexes

Nationality                                   AD+CAFGIV                                               AST+CAFGI-III
Establishment plan posts               Number                     % of total staff                     Number                     % of total staff                     Number                     % of total staff
8                                                                                                                                                                   9

Greek                                                                                43%                                1                                0.5%                                                                 48%
Hungarian                 到                    3                                1.6%                                0                                0.0%                                3                                1.6%
Irish                         qd)                    1                                0.5%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
Italian                       oO                   21                               11.2%                               4                                2.1%                               25                               13.4%
Latvian                     一                                                                                                                                                                 0                                0.0%
Lithuanian            )              2                      1.1%                      0                      0.0%                      2                      1.1%
Luxembourgish           -—                                                                                                                                                                 0                                0.0%
Maltese                     人                                                                                                                                                                 0                                0.0%
Dutch                       更                    4                                2.1%                                0                                0.0%                                4                                2.1%
Polish                           w                       7                                     3.7%                                     2                                     1.1%                                     9                                     48%
Portuguese                8                    3                                1.6%                                0                                0.0%                                3                                1.6%
Romanian           人             7                    3.7%                    2                    1.1%                    9                    48%
Slovakian                  Qe                    1                                0.5%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
Slovenian                  名                                                                                                                                                                 0                                0.0%
Spanish                    a}                   16                               8.6%                                3                                1.6%                               19                              10.2%
Swedish                    e@                    1                                0.5%                                0                                0.0%                                1                                0.5%
British                       se                    5                                2.7%                                0                                0.0%                                5                                27%
Total                                              141                             75.4%                             46                             24.6%                            187                             100%
Nationality                                                   AD+CAFGIV                                               AST + CA FGI-Ill + AST/SC                                                     TOTAL
External staff financed
from Grants, Contrib. &                   Number                      % of total staff                      Number                      % of total staff                      Number                      % of total staff
SLAs
French                      (a)                    2                               28.6%                               1                                14.3%                               3                               42.9%
Italian                       4                    1                                14.3%                                                                0.0%                                1                                14.3%
Romanian                 o                    1                                14.3%                               1                                14.3%                               2                               28.6%
Spanish                    Ss                    1                                14.3%                                                                0.0%                                1                                14.3%
Total                                               5                              71.4%                              2                              28.6%                              7                               100%
- The AACC granted the Brexit exception to 5 UK Nationals as provided for in the Arts 12(2), 47 and 119 of the CEOS.

- ERA may engage citizens from EEA states (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), but does not receive any applications from these countries.

90 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 93 ---
T3.Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency

Table 31 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency

Most represented

nationality

Establishment plan posts
Belgian                       oO                            38                                                23%                                                44                                                24%

E. Schooling

Table 32 - Schooling

No agreement is in place with a European School.

Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type | European schools                           No
Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type II European schools                           No                              Informal arrangement with EEL(M) (Ecole européenne Lille Métropole)
Number of service contracts in place with international schools:                                             0

Description of any other solutions or actions in place:

Informal arrangement with Jehan Froissart Primary School in Valenciennes (EN curricula)

HUMAN RESOURCES 2023-2025 - QUALITATIVE | 91

--- Page 94 ---
Annexes

92 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Annex VI. Environment

management

Executive summary

The revised SPD guidelines(®°) require Agencies to compile and formalise their Environ-
ment management policy. To achieve this ambition, the first Environment management
annex was drafted in which ERA summarised its commitment to higher policy
goals, the measures already in place, as well as the potential future environment
management initiatives and actions, taking in consideration the responsibilities of the
Agency as a public administration body, while keeping in mind the impact of environ-
mental initiatives on the Agency’s limited human and financial resources. Despite these
limitations, the Agency is a socially and environmentally responsible organisation which
pursues, whenever possible, the adoption and related implementation of environmental
measures and initiatives that can be achieved with the available means.

The Agency is committed to promote a culture of sustainability acting in a re-
sponsible and sustainable manner - see point 9 of the European Union Agency for
Railways Policy(*'). Concern for the environment and promoting a broader sustainability
agenda are integral to ERA's professional activities and the management of the organisa-
tion. In addition, the Agency is committed to urgently respond, within the boundaries
of its mandate and capacity, to the ongoing energy crisis.

The Agency's aim is to follow and to promote good sustainability practice, to reduce the
environmental impacts of its activities and to help its stakeholders to do the same. The
Agency's existing environment principles() are covered under the following broader top-
ics:

Green building(®) | Climate protection               Environmental preferable purchasing
Transportation      Waste reduction and recycling | Sustainable resource management

ERAS wider work in the railway sector, including its authority and policy contribution to
a fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is covered under the
Annual Work Programme, in particular Strategic Statement 2() and the specific project
designated to “Green agenda’ (ERA1234).

In addition to the broader policy context related to the Green Deal, the Agency pays atten-
tion to the environmental impact of its day-to-day operations (ie.to its building, staff,
management, administration, and functioning).

ERA in the broader policy context related to environment

As an Agency of the European Union, ERA pledges to the Commission’s European
Green Deal(®) initiative. Consequently, ERA commits to deliver its part of the deal to
make the EU's climate, energy, transport and taxation policies fit for reducing net green-

(®) Communication C(2020) 2297 final of 20.4.2020 on the strengthening of the governance of Union Bodies under
Article 70 of the Financial Regulation 2018/1046 and on the guidelines for the SPD and the CAAR

(*) _https://www.era.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/european_union_agency_for_railways_policy_en.pdf

(®) Currently covered in the latest Environmental measures implemented at ERA status note (internal, 15/03/2022)

(®) The Agency is considering a green building certification for its new headquarters building project (Certification HOE
- Haute Qualité Environnementale)

() “Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will
be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”

(©) See https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en | https://ec.europa.eu/info/
strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal/delivering-european-green-deal_en


--- Page 95 ---
house gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels - as defined in the

EU Climate Target Plan 2030(*).

Since the publication of the Communication from the Commission on the European
Green Deal(*”) in December 2019, ERA has strengthened its activities aiming at promoting
the role of the railways in the decarbonation of the European transport sector. To make the
European Union the first carbon neutral region in the world by 2050, lowering the trans-
port emissions is crucial. Between 1990 and 2019, the transport emissions have gradually
increased and reached 25% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the EU. The transport
sector is the second sector only to the energy sector in terms of emission.

However, looking at the same period, the emissions of the railway sector have gradually
decreased and nowadays represent less than 0.5% of the transport-related emissions. In
addition, railways are also the mode of transport with the lowest external costs (external-
ities).

ERA has a central role in fostering interoperability and safety of the rail transport which
should eventually make it more attractive, more efficient and thereby increase the modal
share of the railways, resulting the greenhouse gas emissions of Europe's transport sector,
in line with the objectives of the EC Green Deal:

Figure 1 - Sustainable mobility targets (Source: EC)

reduction
greenhouse gas emissions in transport by 2050

Reducing its dependence
on fossil fuels

eS

By 2030, there will be at least
30 million zero-emissions cars and
80 000 zero-emission lorries
in operation.

By 2030, there will be
at least 100 climate-neutral
cities in Europe.
Scheduled collective travel
under 500 km should be carbon neutral
by 2030 within the EU.

us

Zero-emission large aircraft will
become ready for market by 2035.

(©) _https://myintracomm.ec.europa.eu/news/EuropeandBeyond/Pages/55-percent-emissions-cut-plan.aspx| https://

Making
alternative choices available

All large and medium-sized cities put
in place their own sustainable urban
mobility plans by 2030.

Traffic on high-speed rail
will double by 2030.
By 2050 rail freight traffic
will double.

Transport by inland waterways and
short sea shipping will increase
by 25% by 2030.

ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/european-green-deal/2030-climate-target-plan_en

() Communication COM/2019/640 final of 11.12.2019 from the Commission on the European Green Deal

Pricing to reflect
environmental impact

The internalisation
of external costs
of transport at the latest
by 2050 will ensure

that those who use transport

will bear the full
costs rather than leaving others
in our society to meet them.

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 93

--- Page 96 ---
Annexes

Figure 2 - Smart mobility targets (Source: EC)

Unleash full potential                     By 2030, integrated electronic                 By 2030, automated mobility
of data.                        ticketing facilitates seamless multimodal           will be deployed on large scale.
passenger transport.
Freight transport will be paperless.

Figure 3 - Resilient mobility targets (Source: EC)

Transport has been one of the sectors hit hardest by the COVID-19 pandemic. The EU has now an opportunity
to build a mobility system that is sustainable, smart, and resilient: a system for future generations.

Building a strong and resilient                  Creating a mobility system                 Ensuring the highest standards
Single Market:                             that is fair and just for all:                        of safety and security
in European transport:

Investment in transport infrastructure         Make mobility affordable and accessible
across the EU Member States;              in all regions and for all passengers;                 By 2050, the death toll
for all modes of transport
in the EU will be close to zero.
By 2050, a fully operational, multimodal                Improve the conditions
Trans-European Transport Network                      for transport workers.

for sustainable and smart transport
with high speed connectivity.

ERAS wider work in the railway sector, including its authority and policy contribution to a
fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is reflected in all Agency's
strategic statements which form part of the Single Programming Document (multi-annual
and annual parts). The targeted conceptual work related to the Green agenda is captured

in Strategic Statement 2().

In 2021, ERA led by example by having been one of the main organisers of European Year

of Rail 2021(*), a flagship thematic initiative of the European Green Deal.

On the highest level, ERA also pledges to respect and act upon the United Nation's
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the 17 Sustainable Development

Goals (SDGs).

全 “Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will

be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”

(®) See https://europa.eu/year-of-rail/index_en | https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_20_363

94 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 97 ---
Environmental impacts of ERA activities

ERAS administrative operations related to its building(s) have direct and indirect impacts
on the environment. ERA’s impact on the environment falls under the following categories:

1. Use of electricity, including for heating and cooling, water, paper and        ©)

stationery
2. Generation of waste and CO2 emissions (including by travelling / com-        N
muting)                                                                              (a @
3. Land use with regards to biodiversity(°)                                          ww

<_

ERA pays attention to limiting the use of resources, taking the energy crisis into account,
and minimising negative impacts on the environment.

The recent geopolitical developments make the environmental - and in particular ener-
gy-related issues - more visible than ever before.

Accountability ceiling of ERA

ERA is committed to do the utmost to advance its environment management and neutral-
ise its impact on the environment. Nevertheless, it needs to be noted that due to outside
factors ERAS leverage may be limited regarding some proposed environment actions.

Current ERA headquarters building was put at the disposal of ERA by Valenciennes Métro-
pole through a rental contract. Other buildings (meeting rooms in Lille, parking) used by
ERA are rented in office buildings and parking lots, where the environment management
responsibilities and tasks lie with the property owner or manager. In the context of the
Covid-19 pandemic, the Agency has re-assessed its approach to meetings with stakehold-
ers and has limited the use of office spaces in Lille, as well as the missions of ERA staff and
externals to Lille headquarters. A large number of the Agency's meetings have been held
in remote mode, thus reducing the carbon footprint.

Moreover, ERAs new headquarters building project has a key focus on environmental con-
siderations when setting up specifications and during negotiations. The new building
project complies with the EMAS/HQE recommendations.

It has to be noted that the railway link with the adjacent Belgian city of Mons is missing for
decades, with no rail service on the section between Valenciennes and the Franco-Belgian
border. Despite recent plans brought back the hope for re-establishing the connection, as
of today this condition leaves no feasible public transportation option for the significant
proportion of ERA staff living in Belgium. ERA remains a vocal advocate of recommencing
cross-border railway operations as defined in its Strategic Statement 1(”'), with a particular
focus on this particular one. Nevertheless as of today, carbon footprint related to staff
commuting from Belgium to France needs to be mitigated with less desirable alternative
solutions, such as carpooling.

() As per the EMAS regulation (Commission Regulation (EU) 2018/2026 of 19 December 2018 amending Annex IV to
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 on EMAS). Note: the premises have limited urban green space or accessible rooftop
to be considered for significant improvement of its biodiversity.

(") “There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail,
assets can be reused throughout Europe”

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 95

--- Page 98 ---
Annexes

96 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Environment management achievements of ERA to date(”’)

2022

2021

2020

Implementation of SYSPER having in view the digitalisation of formerly pa-
per-based processes and reduce paper use

Reduction in the number of missions and limited use of the Lille premises

Donation of old laptops to local charities and associations through the Mairie de
Valenciennes

Introduction of the new SharePoint system - having in view the advancement of
DMS digitalisation and reduction of paper use

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of Covid-19 pandemic

Providing ERA branded cloth masks through Better Together project (to reduce
use of surgical masks)

Reusable water bottles provided for the participants of the Rail Safety Days 2021
event instead of disposable cups

™ Substitution of the purchase of single use plastic cups for paper cups

2019

2018

2017

2016

Participation of the Agency at the virtual EU interinstitutional Greening Network
meeting

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of COVID-19 pandemic

Installation of LED lighting systems in the HQ ground floor corridor

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Refurbishment of all meeting rooms in the ERA HQ (installation of LED lighting
systems inside the MTG A131, BO03-B005, B016, B017, and B018).

Installation of recycling stations for offices supplies in the ERA HQ
Purchase of eco office supplies and LED desk lamps
Communal areas of the HQ refurbished with eco-friendly material

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Installation of recycling stations in the HQ
Replacement of old fridges with new ones consuming less energy
Deployment of power off scripts for laptops left powered on

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

(?) Based on the Environmental measures implemented at ERA status note (internal), complemented with other
achievements


--- Page 99 ---
2015

2.Implementation of recycling and sustainable purchases via two catering contractors

3. Recycling workshop from the French local authorities to explain the recycling in

France organized by FM attended by colleagues within ERA (23/04/2015)

2014

® Installation of the recycling station at the canteen, plastic cup collection station,

plants in the reception and library, installation of recycling bins in the meeting
rooms at the headquarters

™ ERA started the gradual introduction of paper orders that have environmentally

friendly label (Ecolabel/Blauer Engel), and also labelled FSC. By today ERA purchas-
es products labelled “FSC Recycled” (manufactured with 100% recycled fibre of
which at least 85 percent is PCW recycled material).

Environment management initiatives and planned actions for

2023-2025

Methodological notes:

|. The actions listed in the sections below which require a budget envelope will start with a
budget estimate as a pre-requisite. Budget availability will be assessed for those actions

before proceeding with the implementation.

Il. Depending on the interest expressed for the volunteering group referred in part |, this group

can assist with other actions listed in parts A-l.

Ill. While some of the units/teams are referred in the column of responsibilities by the nature
of their role in the organisation, the successful implementation of the strategy relies on the

ownership and involvement of all staff members.

A. Consumption of resources (energy & utilities)

内

A Pareto analysis of energy consumption will be conducted to pinpoint the critical points
to concentrate on and put efforts in first. Based on this information, ERA will identify any

possible action to decrease the consumption.

List of actions:

Acti
Reducing temperature in the building as agreed/recommended by French authorities,
with no possibility for additional electric heating devices
Repair/replace faulty sensors to solve lights always on in some offices
Reduce/stop heating and cooling in underutilised spaces, allow for settings
management at office level
Adjust auto-off settings of lights, reducing light level whenever possible, add manual
switches for “hard off” (not even activated with motion sensor), consider lights off
beyond working hours
Remove some neon tubes and/or replace them with LED
Internal communication campaign to limit the use of energy draining devices, to
unplug and switch off devices before leaving the office, to use multiple screens only
when needed (or meeting rooms)

Continue to procure green energy

immediately
immediately
Q1 2023
Q1 2023
Q2 2023
Q1 2023

continuous

RSU/FM
RSU/FM
RSU/FM
RSU/FM
RSU/FM

EXO/SAC(’?)

RSU/FM

() Explanation in | Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), staff involvement in environmental issues

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 97,

--- Page 100 ---
Annexes

B. Reduction of carbon footprint related to staff commuting

ERA will analyse analogous schemes at Commission and other Agencies and evaluate the
feasibility of providing local public transport passes to staff (or retrospectively reimburs-
ing staff for these passes) to further encourage staff to use public transport and thereby
reduce their carbon footprint. The budget impact of such initiative should be properly
factored.

List of actions:

Coordinator

Carpooling module in SharePoint                                                             Q2 2023                   RSU/IT

Purchase of bike repair station (or repair kit with pump)                                      Q2 2023                   RSU/FM
Internal communication campaign to incentivise cycling to work                          Q2 2023                   EXO/SAC
Electric vehicle charging (car and bike)                                                             Q2 2024                    RSU/FM.

Development of a teleworking regime that requires less office space (e.g. hot

desks, rotational schedules) - see under section F below                                  inline weilin GoM) cea             EU

C. Green public procurement(79)

Calls for procurement tenders of relevant goods and services should include “Environmen-
tal and social contribution” among the technical evaluation criteria (e.g. decommissioned
furniture disposal/re-use, recycling policy, donations). An “environmental impact state-
ment’ will be written in the initial proposal for procurement and specific, robust environ-
mental criteria, and “environmental considerations” will be included in the calls for pro-
curement tenders of relevant goods, and services include. Tenderers will have to comply
with these criteria and considerations to qualify for a contract. It is planned to become a
standard ERA practice to build environmental considerations into procurement for rele-
vant goods and services.

(4) European Commission- Green Public Procurement: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/gpp/index_en.htm,

98 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

--- Page 101 ---
D. Carbon footprint reduction and management of missions,
meetings and events

ERA adheres to Commission's guidelines on organising sustainable meetings and

events(”), and commits to promote the guidelines and incentivise to its staff to apply the
steps when organising meetings and events:

™ Step 0: Is a physical meeting/event necessary?

Step 1: Is the venue sustainable enough?

Step 2: Is the printed and promotional material sustainable?

Step 3: Are the 3Rs applied? (Reduce, Recycle and Reuse)

Step 4: Is the catering sustainable?

Step 5: Are the accommodation and transport environmentally friendly?
Step 6: Have social aspects been considered?

™ Step 7: Are you sharing environmental awareness?

The Agency could strengthen the recommendation for internal and external attendees
to select train transportation where convenient connections are available, or air travel op-
tions with smaller carbon footprint (e.g. more direct flight routes, less connections). In
addition, travel policy and related internal communications will repeatedly emphasise to
ERA staff that online meeting forms should be preferred and picked over travel intensive
face-to-face meetings whenever feasible and expedient.

E. Further reduction of paper and stationery consumption

ERA will advance further digitalisation of the Agency, including the replacement of pa-
per-based processes with electronic workflows and other IT systems - in cooperation with
the Commission's DG DIGIT - such as:

国 SYSPER (full rollout)

® Microsoft SharePoint and Office 365: office solutions for paperless document cre-
ation and storing (full rollout)

™® Ares: document management and archiving system

ERA will continue to reduce the number of printed (paper-based) publications through
close management of the communication & publication plan. ERA will increase the use of
print on demand of its publications/materials and web publishing.

ERA will raise awareness among its staff to on further possibilities of moving towards pa-
perless office. As part of it, instead of the usual stationery “welcome package’, office sup-
plies will continue to be stored in a designated office and colleagues will be invited to
collect strictly what they need - on demand.

() New release: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/emas_for_you/news/news84_en.htm

“

@

内

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT|99

--- Page 102 ---
Annexes

F. Waste generation reduction, sorting and recycling

ERA will make sure that selective waste collection remains widely available in offices and
common areas of the current building and undertakes to provide for the same in the new
building. In the form of internal communication, ERA will raise awareness among its staff
about these recycling arrangements.

Moreover, ERA has a partner to recycle decommissioned IT equipment.

List of actions:

Action                                                                                Coordinator

Procure and distribute ERA-branded reusable water bottles for staff to reduce disposable

Q2 2023             EXO/SAC

cup use
Install containers for reusable discarded items (e.g. coffee capsules/pads, stationery)         Q3 2023             RSU/FM
Replace bottled water at events with alternative, less waste generating means (e.g.                                   EXO/SAC or
distributing ERA-branded reusable water bottles, order of returnable bottle products       Q1 2024

.              5                                                                                                                          RSU/FM
with a deposit fee)
Include recyclable packaging in the criteria of the catering contract                            contr. renewal “| Procurement

G. Reduction of office space need

List of actions:

Coordinator

Teleworking rules, including clear criteria for requesting full time presence on premises, _| in line with COM

depending on the service needs                                                                       reg.                  sin
Flexible office arrangement in the new building
-      5                                                  :                                in line with new
Discontinue Lille office rental when the current contract expires                                  HQ project         RSU/FM
Hot desk arrangements
H. Use of available green space, greening of the offices              PS

List of actions:

Coordinator

Campaign about composting(”*)                                                                                       Q2 2023               AAM

Design in the new building: planting native and high CO, conversion capacity plants,       a      ，

installing vertical garden                                                                        Tallis callin new | RSU/FM
HQ project

Propagation of indoor vertical gardens in the new building

("9)_https://wwwialenciennes-metropole.fr/competences/developpement-durable/dechets/composteurs/

100 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 103 ---
|. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), staff involvement in           vw
environmental issues                                                                  “HY

List of actions:(’’)

Action                                                                                Coordinator
Periodical intervention at General Assemblies to inform staff about environmental topics | Q4 2022            CAP
Set-up of ERA Environment (Volunteering) Group to drive dissemination actions, collect

ideas and push for the progress of environment actions                                             (Gil aos             AP

Annual CSR activities organised to staff (e.g. tree planting, garbage collection, social                                 Volunteering
volunteering) and incentivising teams to choose “responsible” team-building activities      Q2 2023            Group / Better
with added environ/social value                                                                                                 Together
Promote events at the level of ERA staff, such as: “green week’, “green day" or “greener       03 2023            EXO/SAC

office contest”

Current status and plan for certifications and standards

ERA does not hold a certification for any of the environment/energy management stand-
ards (e.g. EMAS, ISO 14001, HOE, ISO 50001). However, especially in the context of the new
building project, ERA pays particular attention to the requirements listed in the respective
standards. The new building is planned to be EMAS & HOE certified.

(”) Subject to resource constraints

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 101

--- Page 104 ---
Annexes

Annex VII. Building policy

Current building(s)

Table 33 - Current building(s)(”)

Surface Area (in m?)                                                             Rental contact
iti            Host

Building                                                                                                                                     ’                                                         Conditions
name and                                                                                         Rent (€/year)     Duration                             se    attachedtothe | country
type                                                        Office space                                                             (9                 of the                   Type                                   breakout clause | (grant or
contract                        Y/N                      support)

(if applicable)
1

120 rue Marc Lefranca,                  本                                    a                       1 year with
ERA HQ           SO VSIEnalShRES 有        5,250 m? (°°)                          5,250 m:      486,942.69 €  faa enenell       office rental
Lille Office                                                                                                                                        4           ，
ae       299 Boulevard de Leeds,                   a             a                     a                         Until         meeting premise
2   space      59000 Lille, FR                     373.98 m?) 54.90 m:           428.88 m’       94,105.40 €   31/12/2023           rental                N                N/A                no
Parking des
Tertiales-SPL | Rue du Fer a Cheval, 59300                  .              .         100 parking                        1 year with             ，
2    Valenciennes      Valenciennes, FR                                                                places           20250S  tacit renewal       Parkinglrenital            只                  NA                  "9
Stationnement
Espace              13 Avenue le Corbusier                                                    .                                        Until                 ，
4   Imismgtional     59800UieFR                             -            -| 1parking place       2,689.56 €   31/12/2023      parking rental          N               N/A               no
78.       >
Total                                                                   5,623.98 m?| 54.90 m?      “ cee    609,987.65 €
Notes:

1. ERA HQ (Valenciennes): ERA is the only tenant in the ERA HQ building, the Agency exclusively occupies and uses all office and non-office spaces in the building. Therefore, all surface area is included
under the 5 250 m? of office space (SHON, terraces are not considered).

2 Lille Office- Espace International (Lille): ERA shares office spaces with the building landlord (CCI de Région) on the 2” floor. Following the signature of the addendum n°3 to main Lease contract
that entered into force as of 01/09/2022, the leased total office space is reduced to 428.88 m? for a lease fee of 84,673.81 €, where the “quote-part des parties communes” is 12.80%. ERA
has an exclusive use of the “office space” (**) of the 428.88 m? considered in the rent, the remaining 12.80% included under “non-office”(®) are shared with the landlord and other tenants.

(加           Table as of 31/12/2021, to be updated in due course.

()          HT = hors taxe (excluding tax), as of 2021.
()           SHON = Surface Hors CEuvre Nette (Net Surface Area), see https://www.service-public.fr/particuliers/vosdroits/F2868.

()            The net office space being used exclusively by the Agency, namely the reception, cafeteria, meeting rooms, offices, circulations, storage / technical rooms, copy corners inside ERA closed space.

()           Toilets / sanitary installations, storage / technical rooms and circulations located outside ERA closed space and being shared with other occupants, including building common areas located on the ground floor main reception (parking

places are not considered).

102 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 105 ---
Building project in the planning phase

Due to the growth of the Agency, the current building in Valenciennes does not offer any
longer the required conditions to accommodate staff and activities related to the Agen-
cy’s role as railways’ Authority. Therefore, the Agency has re-allocated the majority of staff
members in double office spaces as a short-term solution. Another short-medium term
solution is the implementation of teleworking up to the limit set by the Management
Board Decision on Teleworking.

In parallel, as part of a long-term solution, the Agency and Valenciennes Métropole have
started defining the requirements for a new building to accommodate ERA activities after
2027 by means of a Study composed of different phases. In 2018, the Phase | of the Study
confirmed that the current ERA HQ cannot accommodate all requirements related to the
Agency activities and growth.

In 2019 and 2020, the Agency has managed to complete the Phases 2 and 4 of the tech-
nical and functional study resulting in the approval of the technical specifications that will
be used as the base for the selection of architects in the Phase 3 of the Study.

Taking into account the experience gained during the pandemic with large-scale tele-
working and new ways of working, the building capacity was revised, and the technical
project adapted.

The main objective for the Agency during 2021 was to prepare the technical and financial
dossier to be formally addressed to the EU Budgetary Authority for the financing of a new
building.

In 2022, following the approval of the project, it is foreseen that Valenciennes Métropole
will launch a “Concours” (Contest / CFT) for the selection of the Architect as part of the
Phase 3 of the Project.

Building projects submitted to the European Parliament and the
Council

See status under previous section.

BUILDING POLICY | 103

--- Page 106 ---
Annexes

Annex VIII. Privileges and immunities

The Management Board approved the proposed Headquarters (or Seat) Agreement between the Agency and the host Member State without objections or negative votes in August 2018.
(®) The Seat Agreement between the French Government and the Agency has been presented as draft legislation to the French National Assembly on 7 July 2021(*) and has been adopted
and promulgated on 31 January 2022. The final text of the Seat Agreement can be found here(®). The following table presents the privileges granted to the Agency's staff:(®)

Table 34 - Privileges granted to staff

Agency privileges

The Agency's headquarters are located in Valenciennes and Lille. The French authority
pledge to provide the necessary support to ensure the location of the Agency's
headquarters will remain unchanged. (Art. 3)

The Agency's premises are inviolable, exempt from perquisition, requisition,
confiscation or expropriation. No French authority can enter the building without

the prior agreement of the Executive Director. The property and assets of the Agency
cannot be subject of legal measure of constraint without the authorisation of the CJEU.
(Art. 4)

The Agency's archives and all official documents are also inviolable. The Agency will
benefit from the same treatment the French Government provides to diplomatic
missions when it comes to official communication. No restriction can be placed on
neither official communication addressed to the Agency or a member of its personnel,
nor on any communication emanating from the Agency. In addition, the Agency shall
have the right to use codes and to dispatch and receive official correspondence and
other official communications by courier or in sealed bags which shall be subject to
the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and bags. (Art. 5)

(®)

Privileges granted to staff

Protocol of privileges and immunities / diplomatic status

The HQ Agreement differentiates statutory staff (officials, TAs, CAs) and external staff
(SNEs, experts, trainees, interims). (Art. 1).

The privileges and immunities provided for the statutory staff aim to guarantee their
independence and the unimpeded functioning of ERA. The Executive Director and the
statutory staff (Art. 10):

enjoy immunity from jurisdiction, even after the termination of their mission, in respect
of acts carried out by them in the exercise of their functions

are exempt from national taxes on earnings, salaries and respective supplements paid
by the Agency

enjoy the exemption for themselves and their spouses from measures restricting
immigration and from aliens’ registration formalities;

enjoy the same privileges in respect of currency and exchange regulations comparably
to those accorded to staff of international organisations

enjoy the right to import duty-free their furniture and personal effects at the time of
first taking up their post in France and the right on the termination of their functions in
France to export free of duty their furniture and personal effects, subject in both cases
to conditions considered necessary by the French authorities

https://www.era.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/decision/decision_n180_headquarters_agreement_between_agency_and_host_state_en.pdf

(*)

Assemblée Nationale : https://Avww.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/textes/I15b4323_projet-loi | Sénat : https://www.senat.fr/dossier-legislatif/pjI21-288. html

(®)
(*)

https://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/textes/I15b4323_accord-international.pdf
http://www.senat.fr/rap/I21-365/121-3651.html

104 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Education /
day care

No provision
in the
headquarters
agreement.
Please refer

to Annex V.

E. Schooling
for further
information on
education.


--- Page 107 ---
Agency privileges

Privileges granted to staff

Protocol of privileges and immunities / diplomatic status

Education /
day care

The Agency is entitled to display the flag of the EU, as well as its own on its premises
and vehicles (Art. 6)

The Agency, its assets, income and other properties, shall be exempt from all direct
taxes. The Agency is also exempt from indirect taxes and duties included the price

of movable and immovable property and services, acquired for its official use and
involving an expenditure of at least €150. The exemption may be granted by way of a
refund. The Agency shall also be exempt from all custom duties and any other taxes for
all goods intended for official use, as long as this exoneration is foreseen in the EU or
national legislation. (Art. 7-8)

Finally, the Agency is entitled to register three vehicles with diplomatic plates. (Art. 9)

Enjoy the right to import duty-free their private car acquired whether in the country of
their last residence or in the country of which they are nationals, bound by the single
market rules. They also enjoy the right to export it duty-free, subject to the conditions
considered necessary by the French authorities;

Have access -~ along with their family members - to access without discrimination
compared with French citizens to all public services provided on French territory,
including medical services, education, childcare, and housing.

The French Government will deliver to all members of the Agency's personnel (expect
those who have the French nationality or permanent residency) a special residency
document identifying them as member of the Agency's personnel. The Agency will
ensure that once an employee leaves the Agency, its residency document is handed
back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also facilitates
the issuance of those residency documents and work authorisations to the family
members of all the Agency's personnel, expect those who have the French nationality
or permanent residency (Art. 11 (1, 2)).

The French authorities will take all necessary measures to facilitate the entry, stay, and
departure of experts in missions for the Agency on the French territory. Necessary visa
sand authorisations will be delivered for free as quickly as possible (Art. 11 (2, 4)).

In addition, the Executive Director and the statutory staff are exempt from any
compulsory national social security system. External staff, SNEs, and their family
members, subject to their coverage in their own country of citizenship, are also exempt
from any compulsory national social security system. (Art. 12)

PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES | 105

--- Page 108 ---
Annexes

106 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Annex IX. Evaluat

ONS

The Agency has a system in place to monitor its performance and formalise an evaluation
of the results achieved in the year into the SPD dashboard, as an ongoing tool, as well
as through the Consolidated Annual Activity Report, which focuses on the achieve-
ments of indicators and targets set out in the SPD.

The following instruments are used for collecting the data and for triggering actions:

Work progress reports, filled in by projects and service managers reporting the
status of projects and services against the relevant plans, budget and human re-
sources allocation, including SPD targets.

Budget execution monitoring, a continuous activity based on a daily automat-
ed report fed with SUMMA data, displaying the level of appropriations, commit-
ments and payments to date for each budget line and for each project/service

Monthly budget review meetings with the Management Team to analyse the
data from the budget execution monitoring and take timely decisions for deploy-
ing / redeploying the resources. The redeployment of resources is brought to the
attention of the Management Board for information if the transfers are within one
title or between titles but below the 10% threshold or for decision if the transfers
are between titles and above the 10% threshold

IMS internal audits, part of the internal monitoring programme aimed at verify-
ing that processes, projects, services and products comply with internal and exter-
nal requirements, including

IAS audits
ECA audits

Non-Conformity register, where deviations from the relevant rules and provi-
sions are recorded

All the sources listed above allow the Agency governance bodies, namely the Manage-
ment Team and the Management Board to monitor continuously the functioning of the
Agency. In order to allow this, the Agency has developed a performance dashboard
which is turning the data into meaningful information.

The dashboard provides figures, charts and visuals about:

Human resources:

= Total No. of statutory staff members
= No. of statutory staff members per type of contract:
* Contract Agents
* Temporary Agents
* Seconded National Experts
° Trainees
= No. of statutory staff members per unit
= No. of statutory staff members per unit and type of contract
= Geographical balance
= Gender balance:
° Global Agency gender balance
° Gender balance in the management team
* Gender balance per type of contract

--- Page 109 ---
™ Budget management:

General budget overview as per Single Programming Document, including:
* EU contribution

* _EFTA contribution

° Fees and Charges

For each budget title:

* Envelope

* Amount paid

° Forecasted revenues (Title 4 only)

™® Agency's authority tasks:

No. of applications:
* Single Safety Certificate:
* Submitted
* On-Going
* Issued
* Vehicle Authorisations:
* Submitted
* On-Going
* lssued ERTMS Track-side Approval:
* Submitted
* On-going
* Initial engagement completed
No. of hours per type of process
* Single Safety Certificate:
* Actual
* Forecasted
* Vehicle Authorisations:
* Actual
* Forecasted ERTMS Track-side Approval:
* Actual
* Forecasted

™ Projects and services:

Budget:

° Arbitrated project budget, from the current budget year (C1) and the pre-
vious one (C8)

* Difference between arbitrated budget and current budget allocation

° Expenditure

Human resources:

* Work:
* Baseline value
* Planned
* Actually spent
Status:
* Overall status
* Quality
* Risks
* Schedule

* Risk of missing the SPD targets.

EVALUATIONS | 107,

--- Page 110 ---
Annexes

108 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

Terminology(®’)

The following terms are used in the SPD - in accordance with the Commission guideline
on evaluation:

Strategic Statement(®) is a coherent area of action with objectives and resources. It is
the basic building block for the structure of the annual Work Programme, distinguishing
between operational activities — directly related to the mission and core tasks of the agen-
cy, and horizontal/ cross-cutting activities — carried out to support operational activities
and staff.

Objective describes what the agency wants to achieve either in the short or long term.

Indicator is a characteristic or attribute that is measured regularly in order to assess to
what extent an objective has been met

Baseline is the point of reference against which achievement or progress towards objec-
tives is measured.

Milestone is an intermediate target set, expressed in quantitative or qualitative terms,
measuring progress towards the achievement of long-term objectives.

Target is the ultimate desired situation, quantified and timed.

Inputs are the human and financial resources used and the time required to produce
outputs.

Actions are the work carried out over a certain period of time, consuming resources and
producing outputs in accordance with the objectives set.

Outputs are what is directly produced or supplied through the agency intervention. They
often relate to the expected deliverables of the intervention and are identified based on
its operational objectives.

Outcome is the envisaged medium to long term effects of a programme or policy out-
put. While its results are not easily foreseeable and might not be entirely in the sphere of
control of the Agency, the outcome represents an intermediate medium-term step be-
tween the agency’ outputs and longer-term societal impacts. The Agency has structured
its multiannual work programme according to desired outcomes to ensure all of its out-
puts will contribute positively to its vision & ambition.

Results are the direct effects of intervention(s) on the target groups.

Impacts are the indirect or long-term effects of an intervention on the EU or global socie-
ty that are, at least partly, expected to be influenced by agency's interventions.

人的) Communication C(2020) 2297 final of 20.4.2020 on the strengthening of the governance of Union Bodies under
Article 70 of the Financial Regulation 2018/1046 and on the guidelines for the SPD and the CAAR, C. Terminology
的 Referred to as “Activity” in former SPDs

--- Page 111 ---
Annex X. Strategy for
the organisational
management and
internal control
systems

The strategy gives an overview on how the internal control system is organised and is
contributing to the mitigation of the risks to the achievement of Agency's objectives to
acceptable levels.

The Agency is operating based on a management system designed to provide reasona-
ble assurance regarding the achievement of the five internal control objectives derived
from the Agency's Financial regulation as well as ensuring continuous improvement and
the need to implement a flexible and effective governance. The management system is
implemented through four high-level components (i) Strategic, (ii) Core, (iii) Support and
(iv) Measurement and improvement. Each component is including all 17 principles of the
Internal Control Framework (ICF). There is also a clear link with the internal components of
the ICF (i.e. control environment, risk assessment, control activities and monitoring). This
system is deployed further at the level of processes.

The roles and responsibilities for implementing the system are integrated as follows:

The Management Board represents the Member States, and the institutional stakehold-
ers has a strategic role on budgetary and planning matters. It is overseeing the internal
controls and risk management of the Agency. It ensures that the Agency fulfils its mission
and performs the tasks assigned to it

The Executive Director (ED) in its capacity of Authorising Officer (AO) and under the su-
pervision of the Management Board is ultimately responsible for the management of the
internal control framework. The ED sets the tone at the tope and puts in place structures
and processes to gain reasonable assurance that the system is operating effectively.

4

he heads of units/department in their capacity of/Authorising officer by delegation
AOD) must ensure that the internal controls are efficient and effective in their area of re-
ponsibility as per AO delegation of powers. Both AO and AOD in their capacity of process
wners are responsible for continuous improvement of the processes.

onus

The newly created function of manager in charge of Risk management and internal
control is fulfilled by a middle manager. It oversees the monitoring the implementation
of the internal control arrangements and for complete and accurate reporting on the op-
eration and effectiveness of the internal control framework. This function is also in charge
of facilitating the risk management process.

The accounting officer certifies the year-end accounts thus providing reasonable assur-
ance that the accounts present a true and fair view of the financial situation of the Agency.

All staff should ensure at their own level of competency that their activities comply with
rules and regulations and report any deficiency.

The delegations of powers for executing the budget are detailed in internal procedures.
The implementation of the budget is done via projects and services which is reflected in

STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 109

--- Page 112 ---
Annexes

110 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

empowering project and service managers in managing the associated risks and resourc-
es without prejudice to the AO/AOD powers.

The IAS is the internal auditor of the Agency and performs independent assessment on
the internal control systems based on a three-year plan. Complementary, internal audits
are performed. The external audit is performed by the European Court of Auditors (for the
legality and regularity of transactions) and an external company (for the accounts).

Internal controls tools include:

Controls performed at all levels of the Agency

Risk management, in particular at project/service level and Agency level where
the most significant/relevant risks are captured including strategic risks (recorded
in the agency/corporate risk register and reported in the CAAR). Risks are formally
assessed at both inherent and residual level to make sure that the analysis of the
effectiveness of the controls in place is ensured before additional mitigating meas-
ures are put in place (cost-effectiveness of controls).

™ Corrective/preventive measures are established when recurrent and systemic er
rors are recorded. Ex-ante nonconformities involving significant amount of money
(>15.000 euros) are approved by the AO

® Internal control monitoring criteria for measuring the presence and the function-
ing of the principles are in process of being developed considering the risk envi-
ronment and are focused more on effectiveness and efficiency.

® Follow-up of recommendations from ECA, IAS, Discharge authority as well as other
sources (e.g. external evaluations) to ensure that the actions plans are effectively
implemented within the agreed deadlines.

® Anintegrated reporting system to inform and alert management on the progress
on the implementation of costs for each project/service as well as SPD outputs
(monthly dashboard). The cost data is connected to the source (SUMMA). It in-
cludes several other parameters such as risks, issues, changes, corrective actions
taken, quality, milestones etc.

™ Budgetary status reports are produced on a daily basis including an overview
per unit of the budget execution per budget line for all fund sources, financial
information on commitments, payments and transfers, information on progress of
planned procurement and contracts. The information helps achieving the perfor-
mance targets in these particular areas.

™ Ex-ante controls consisting in several checks of financial and operational aspects
of transactions by the actors involved in the financial circuits. There is a very com-
prehensive checklist/templates as well as guidance which ensure an effective level
of control. The specific controls are detailed in the manual of financial procedures
which also included the steps to be taken for making a financial transaction, the
various financial circuits by type of transaction and the different roles and responsi-
bilities. The Agency is putting substantial efforts in updated these manuals/check-
lists.

™ Ex-post controls for payments not subject to an ex-ante verification. The material-
ity criterion defined by the AO/AODs for drawing a reservation in the CAAR is an
assessment of whether more than 2% of the payments of the activity concerned
is erroneous.

™ Sensitive function policy defines the management of functions involving a consid-
erable amount of autonomy and executive powers with the aim of ensuring that
actions are taken to mitigate the risk that the jobholders deliberately misuse their
decision-making powers or influence with a view to gaining personal advantages

--- Page 113 ---
® Ad-hoc controls are additionally applied at the level of processes whenever the
management assesses it is necessary to mitigate a specific risk (e.g. selection pro-
cedures, financial delegations).

The Agency's anti-fraud strategy has been developed in accordance with OLAF guidelines,
it is setting clear objectives, actions and responsibilities and it is based on a standalone
fraud risk assessment exercise adapted to the Agency's environment encompassing fraud
risks regardless of their criticality. The risk of fraud is duly considered when carry out the
risk assessment exercise.

The strategy is focusing on three objectives:

Handle effectively actual or perceived conflict of interest,

Enhance the promotion of high ethical values as well as increasing fraud aware-
ness

™ Enhance data and information security

The objectives are fully aligned with the fraud risks identified which include inherent sig-
nificant risk of conflict of interest due to specific circumstances of the Agency's activities
(i.e. regulatory powers with significant decision making powers and potential reputational,
legal and financial consequences if conflict of interest not adequately managed; relatively
limited ‘market’ for recruitment of staff as well as for entities which could provide services
for the Agency), potential risk of cyber-attacks leading to operational damage, loss of data,
unauthorised disclosure of information or breach of data; potential risk of outsourcing the
data and information security without proper security risk assessment), risk of staff mem-
bers not being fully aware of their ethics obligations as well as handling and reporting
fraud. The Agency has put in place comprehensive control measures proportional to the
level of risks and amount of risk identified which encompass (but not limited to) manda-
tory tailor-made trainings on ethics and separately on antifraud for all staff, mandatory
submission of declaration of interests for all staff and members of the Management Board
and of the Board of Appeal, ex-post/on the spot controls, review of internal procedures
(including procedures for reporting and handling fraud). Control indicators enable assess-
ment of effectiveness of the measures taken.

Starting 2023, the Agency converges the following activities under a single service
(Internal Management and Control System - ERA.1158) to better support the assur-
ance function:

1. The internal management system coordination - the successor of the previous IMS
service, from which the ISO certification component was dropped, while the focus
is placed on the ICF further implementation and monitoring;

2. The internal control coordination;
3. The central financial verification;
4. The contact point for IAS, ECA and EP discharge follow-up.

Assessment of the effectiveness of the management system

The agency monitors continuously the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control
Framework. A yearly assessment report is produced where consideration is given to the
results of controls mentioned above. All the internal control components and principles
must be present and functioning well at all levels of the Agency to be considered effec-
tive. The results of the assessment are reported in the CAAR.

STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 111

--- Page 114 ---
Annexes

Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution,
or service-level agreements

Table 35 - Grant, contributions, or service-level agreements

General information                                                                       Financial and HR impacts
WEIS Gi                           Duration         Counterpart                       Short description
signature
Grant Agreements
1. IPA (2019/410-                                   48 months                                Continuation of pre-accession support to         Amount (EUR)         133,149         oO)             0             0
31 9)(®)               04/12/2019 | 450,000 | 01/01/2020 -       DG NEAR           the EU candidates and potential candidates       Ne of CAs                       1              1             0
31/12/2023                                      (Western Balkans and Turkey)                              Ne of SNEs                           -                -                -                -
2. EUMedRail                                         72 months                                 Implementation of the action EUMedRail          Amount (EUR)         441,487             0             0             0
(ENI/2020/359-     31/12/2016 | 2,000,000 | 01/01/2017 -       DG NEAR          - EuroMed Rail Safety and Interoperability         Ne of CAs                     3            0            0            0
727)                                                     31/12/2022                                 Project                                                      N° of SNEs                       -              -              -              -
Amount (EUR)         574,636             0             0             0
Total Grant Agreements                                                                                                                                                    Ne of CAs                         4              1               0              0
Ne of SNEs                          =                =                =                =
Contribution Agreements
Weveey                                          45 months                                    Provide a financial contribution to finance the    poner mie (EUR)         230 000) iso 209          p.m.          p.m.
sub/2021.454/ | 15/07/2021 | 750,000 | 16/07/2021- ”|DG MOVE SRD3 | implementation of the action ERA support to     Ne of CAs                        3             3             3         p.m.
512.852702)                           01/05/2025                     the Railway System Pillar                    Ne of SNEs               -         -         -         -
signature ofa       edlsial Cliieeaii  Admin. Arrangement between the Swiss           erent ESR           ee             .             °             2
2.Accessto OSS | 13/12/2019 | 20000         9         ;            Transport (FOT)            ang               Ne of CAs                        -              -              -              -
Cooperation        of Switzerland     Federal Office of Transport and ERA(’")                .
Agreement                                                             Ne of SNEs               -         -         -         -

(®°) Extension of the grant agreement to 2023 under negotiation.
(*) Full amount received by the end of 2022. However, due to the project extension to 31/12/2023 the remaining € 192,464 will be spent in 2023.
(°') In exchange of the access granted by the Agency to the OSS, the FOT accepts to pay a service fee, payable annually.

112 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 115 ---
General information                                                                                 Financial and HR impacts

Date of
signature

Short description

Duration      Counterpart

Amount (EUR)                                            mM.         p.m.
Ne of CAs                                                               p.m.
Ne of SNEs-                                                                         =

Total Contribution Agreements.

Service-Level Agreements

Amount (EUR)

1.N/A                                                                                                                                                                                   Ne of CAs

Ne of SNEs.
Amount (EUR)
Ne of CAs                            0                0                0                0
Ne of SNEs                          =                =                =                >
Amount(EUR) 834,636 250,000          p.m.          p.m.
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ne of CAs                                  7                    4                    3             p.m.
Ne of SNEs                              =                   =                   =                   =

Total Service-Level Agreements

PLAN FOR GRANT, CONTRIBUTION, OR SERVICE-LEVEL AGREEMENTS | 113

--- Page 116 ---
Annexes

114| SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Annex XII. Strategy
for cooperation with
third countries and/
or international
organisations

Since the adoption of the existing strategy for global cooperation (together with SPD
2018), the Agency is updating the scope of work in order to best address the priorities
listed by the European Commission in this field, namely:

The EU transport policy aims at promoting greater development and stability in the neighbour-
ing countries, enhancing connectivity with the neighbouring areas and towards Asia, and cre-
ating a level-playing field for international rail transport and the rail supply industry beyond EU
borders. The Commission welcomes Agency's aspirations to provide technical support at Com-
mission request. The Commission reminds that the main priorities as regards rail international
cooperation fall into EUS neighbourhood, strategic partners and high growth economies be-
yond neighbourhood, and international organisations. Agency’ international activities should
not go beyond.

--- Page 117 ---
Annex XIll. Procurement plan

Table 36 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2023

Conference on European Year of Skills

InnoTrans sqm and AUMA fees

Conference Energy Efficiency

Conference on Multimodal Transport

Services d’interprétation

Event putting the skills gap in Railways and Women in
Transport in the focus

Innotrans is the leading international trade fair for transport
technology and takes place every 2 years in Berlin. ERA
participates as an exhibitor in 2024. Sqm must be booked
one year before the event.

Details included in the Communication and Dissemination
Plan.
Details included in the Communication and Dissemination
Plan.

Interpretation services (‘simultanée, consécutive, chuchotée”)
are required for meetings/ events organized by the Agency in
France (mainly Valenciennes and Lille) or abroad.

Ql

Ql

Ql

Ql

Ql

25,000.00 €

50,000.00 €

25,000.00 €

25,000.00 €

830,000.00 €

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Framework Contract

PROCUREMENT PLAN | 115,

--- Page 118 ---
Annexes

Table 37 - Planned use in 2023 of existing framework contracts

Local Identifier

Use of FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS

User Reference

Expiry Date

To be committed in
2023 (estimated)

PMO contract / AMEX GLOBAL BUSINESS
TRAVEL

ERA 2021 07 FWC
ERA 2018 36 FWC
ERA 2019 02 FWC
ERA 2019 06 FWC

ERA 2021 02 FWC

ERA 2022 03 FWC

ITCON ESMA 2022 02
SCIC/C1/2018/FWC/02

OC_EFSA_COM_2019_01 LOT 2-01

OC_EFSA_COM_2019_01 LOT 1-01

116 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Travel Agency services (missions)

Catering services (Valenciennes)
ASSISTANCE ERTMS TRACKSIDE APPROVAL
Interpretation services

ESP-EISD6 - Off site IT services

Consultancy support on Vehicle Authorisations applications

DEVELOPMENT OF TRAINING PRODUCTS FOR THE EU AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS KNOWLEDGE HUB

ESMA ICT Consultancy
SCIC EVENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES - LOT 2

DEVELOPMENT OF STATIC AND INTERACTIVE INFORMATION AND STORYTELLING PRODUCTS

DEVELOPMENT OF INTEGRATED COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGNS

31/03/2024

08/12/2025
28/04/2023
12/08/2023
28/07/2024

06/01/2026

31/08/2026

18/10/2026
23/07/2023

22/06/2024

10/05/2024

100 000 EUR

30 000 EUR
30000 EUR
125 000 EUR

1 000 000 EUR

350 000 EUR

85 000 EUR

1 250 000 EUR
360 000 EUR

70 000 EUR

90 000 EUR


--- Page 119 ---
Annex XIV.
Strengthening
Action Plan (SAP)
2023-2027

1. Context

In 2022, the Agency's Management Board adopted the Strengthening Plan prepared by
the Agency in close cooperation with the European Commission. The purpose of the
Strengthening Plan is to make the strongest possible case in order to strengthen the
Agency with resources matching the level of ambition necessary for achieving the
important EC policy objectives for rail, in an effective and efficient manner, and
benefit from high levels of ambition and efficiency within ERA’s structure and
methods.

With the document serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the
Agency received a proposed increase of 12 TAs in 2022. While the additional TA allocation
is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening Plan (12 TAs proposed out of the
22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed with the implemen-
tation of the Strengthening Plan.

A very important challenge is represented by the fact that the additional TA allocation
needs to be fully covered under the existing subsidy envelope. To make best use of this
TA allocation and considering the external constraints related to the indexation of salaries
and prices, the Agency is making a thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these
costs in a sustainable manner until the end of MFF 2021-2027. Several measures are envis-
aged, such as the time-phased hiring of the TAs. The budget constraint on the subsidy side
is therefore an element to be properly monitored and managed for the whole remaining
period of the current MFF.

The current document describes the plan of actions which the Agency will put in place in
the period 2023-2027 in order to implement the Strengthening Plan, taking into consid-
eration the level of additional staff allocation proposed by the EC. It is hereinafter referred
as SAP (Strengthening Action Plan) 2023-2027. This builds on actions already taken up to
present to increase the efficiency of the support services and tools.

2. What we want to achieve

ERA has established an outcome-driven framework, placing strong emphasis on effec-
tiveness (i.e. “doing the right things’), in line with the prioritisation of activities included in
the Strengthening Plan. In parallel, a delivery structure based on Projects and Services has
been established. Outputs of projects and services are followed up and measured using a
dashboard approach.

With the Strengthening Plan, we will implement a series of improvement actions that
should enable to achieve the most appropriate outcomes with the resources available.
This is important not only to justify the additional resources requested by the Agency, but
also in order to demonstrate that European taxpayer's money is used in the most effective

92 6 TAsare expected to be phased out by the end of MFF 2021-2027

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 117

--- Page 120 ---
Annexes

118 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

way, so that the European railway system can develop towards attractiveness, efficiency,
and sustainability.

Improvement actions will be assessed according to their impact as well as ease of imple-
mentation. Quantitative targets are defined (mainly related to the respective FTEs) and fol-
lowed up/measured on a regular basis. The baseline is ERA SPD 2022 and the monitoring
tools are ERA SPD Portfolio Management together with the SPD Dashboard developed
already.

3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and targets

The SAP 2023-2027 mirrors the Strengthening Plan and translated it into concrete actions.
ltis based on the planning and monitoring framework and enablers already set up
by the Agency, which includes:

四 the multi-annual planning in the SPD, with a clear focus on the intervention logic;
™ the Agency's performance dashboard, including reporting to the EB and the MB
™ the regular budget execution monitoring and reporting

® the Consolidated Annual Activity Report.

The annual work programmes will therefore be aligned to the priorities listed in the SAP.
which represents an anchor for the multi-annual planning in what the priority policy areas
are concerned. A direct tracking of SAP-related FTEs, outputs and targets will be includes
in the SPDs.

The SAP 2023-2027 is organised along the following components/objectives:

a.) Drive an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by proportional out-
puts and outcomes, including efficiency gains

pb) Maintain proper resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

c) Ensure a reduction in the Agency's administrative FTE allocation while maintaining
regularity and legality

d.) Ensure the overall projected FTE evolution by 2027

e) Ensure effective and efficient budget management (planning and execution), ap-
propriate risk management

--- Page 121 ---
A. Ensure an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by proportional outputs and outcomes, including efficiency gains

Note: /n addition to the balanced input/output ratio for the priority areas, efficiency gains are also embedded and measured with the same indicators. The latter represent the delivery of relatively
more (ambitious) outputs for the same amount of effort compared to previous years.

P/S code        022
baseline           20232
A1. Ensure proper
input/output for NSA |AlTNo.of FTEs allocated 。 |001MRAI116 |462          4.93                       6                             5                               5                          5
ge            (annual values)
monitoring
A1.2. No. of NSA als                     6         8                 9                  9                    9                9
performed per year
Follow-up of                                         Report after 2
A1.3. Proper learning from the                                        wp             Follow-up of            cycles issued with         Optimised scope | Optimised scope
aan                                                            deficiencies                   a                                    1             ，                           -
NSA monitoring                                                                                    deficiencies ensured | recommendations for a | implemented          implemented
ensured                                                               wo
new MB decision
A14 Audit at the Member                                                                                                         Referential to be
State level, i.e. covering more                                                                                                 started at the end
than just the NSA Activities in                                                                                                      of the 2nd NSA
the MS                                                                                                                       Monitoring cycle
AUS ASSESSED Nisa                                             Pilot during the        To be included in               ，           ，            To be included        To be included
supervision activities of RUs                                                                              an       To beincludedinthe |.                        .
，                                              2nd year of the 2nd | the NSA monitoring                rn         ~_ | inthe NSA             in the NSA
where the Agency has issued                                                                   ，                       NSA monitoring audits         a         7           a         ，
the SCs                                                             Cycle                   audits                                                  monitoring audits | monitoring audits

A1.6 "Monitor" NSAs in EU
accession countries (synergies
with IPA grant and TCT) after
IPA countries accession"

To be started at the
ERA.1151%                                                                                end of the 2nd NSA
Monitoring cycle

A1.7 Combine large scope
NSA monitoring audits and
more targeted audits (e.g.
process audits)

To be started at the
end of the 2nd NSA
monitoring cycle

93 For 2023 we work with the assumption that all 12 additional TAs are distributed across the priority areas; however, a correction factor (0.5) needs to be applied to the additional TA work capacity hired in 2023 (in terms of FTE), which corre-
sponds to the late hiring during the year. The numbers included in the 2023 column are already calculated with this correction factor.

94 This indicator captures the speed of progress with organising the NSA audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.

95 This could probably be done less frequently i.e. a longer audit cycle: 6-year cycle, or even longer, or targeted only to MSs where we encountered severe issues during the NSA monitoring which could not be addressed at the NSA level but rather
at the Member State level.

96 Not to replace the NSAs supervision, but to assess the performance of NSAs while carrying out supervision activities (e.g. follow up type 3 issues by concerned NSAs)

97 Subject to the extension of the IPA grant in 2023

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 119

--- Page 122 ---
Annexes

A2.Ensure proper
input/output for
NoBo monitoring

A3. Ensure proper
input/output for the
ERTMS and radio
communication
evolution

A2.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A2.2. No. of NoBo audits
performed per year (full
monitoring cycle in 3 years =
20 NoBos/year)*

A2.3. Learning from NoBo
monitoring/ Forum of best
practices

A2.4 Anew common
framework for NoBos, DeBos
and AsBo assessment and
monitoring set up by the
Agency (new legal base may
be needed)

A2.5 “Knowledge hub" to
promote best practices and
train NoBos (widening it to EU
accession countries)

A3.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A3.2. Expertise provided to
EC in the standardisation
work related to FRMCS, ATO,
innovation (satellite-based
system for train positioning,
enhanced onboard
signaling etc.)- integration of
enhancements in CCS TSI

OOOMRA1 138

ERA1218
ERA-REC-129

2022
baseline

401

8-9

10.35

2023

First concept
drafted

11.22

2024

15

Organised when the
1st audit cycle is at
an advanced stage

Final draft agreed
with EC as a basis for
a future legislative
proposal

20

To be started at the
end of the 1st NoBo
audit cycle.

Provision by 2025 in TS!
if input is provided via
System Pillar

98 This indicator measures the speed of progress with organising the NoBo audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.

120 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

20

2026

20

2027


--- Page 123 ---
A4.Ensure proper
input/output for the
TSls related work

A3.3. Support for the

EU-wide deployment of
ERTMS, including economic
impact analysis to inform
possible public investment
prioritisation (e.g. by CINEA)
A3.4 CCSTSI Maintenance and
operational activities for CCS
Framework

A3.5 review of ESC/RSC and
roadmap for reduction

A4.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A4.2. Lessons Learned
implemented in CCM process

A4.3. CR DAC

AAA. CR Unique Authorisation

A4.5. CR Standards

AA6. CR Virtual Specification
AA.7.CRTSI INF Cleaned-up
A48. CR Battery/Hydrogen
trains

AA. CR Structural composite
materials

A4.10. CR Platform/Train
interface

A4.11 CR Noise of parked
trains

ERA.1175
ERA.1177
ERA.1246
ERA.1172

2022
baseline

45

2023

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

Publication of CCS
TS! Application
guide

ESC/RSC roadmap
proposal

5.94

Harmonised
CCM process
implemented
Implementation
proposal

All new EN referred
to in TSI analysed

2024

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

roadmap
implemented as
planned

Specific Cases for
Coaches

TO EN updates

Closed

Closed

Requests of CINEA- DG
Move 100% assessed

Update CCS TS! with
error corrections

roadmap implemented
as planned

Provisions in TS! by
2025

TO EN updates

1st Draft

2026

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed

roadmap
implemented as
planned

TO EN updates

Closed
Final Draft

Closed

Closed

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 121

2027

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed

Update CCS
TSI with error
corrections

Unique
Authorisation for
vehicles

TO EN updates


--- Page 124 ---
Annexes

A5.Ensure proper
input/output for
the clean-up of
national rules”

A4.12. Energy measurements
A4.13. CR RIV/Dangerous
goods

A4.14 CCM ready for
processing System Pillar input

A4.15. Monitoring
and facilitating the TS!
implementation

A4.16 TSls as global standards

A4.17. Support to EC (TO/
Advice/Derogations/ NoBos)
within agreed deadlines
A4.18. Increased
harmonisation of operations
- define new structure for TSI
OPE

A4.19 CR on Rear-end signal
A4.20TSI Dissemination
Workshops

AS5.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A5.2. NRs to include in TSls
A5.3. Increased performance
of and trust in MS as control
level - assess NSR set up

in MS (incl. impact of TO, if
relevant)

ERA.1172
ERA-PRG-006

2022
baseline

4.28

2023

CCM ready by end
of Q2

Drafting
implementation
template finalised
MS implementation
study developed
International
Strategy - 1st Draft

100%

New structure/
approach defined/
agreed

closed

4

7.36

CRs introduced

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

2024
Closed

Closed
CCM implemented

for all requests

Support to MS
for drafting
implementation plan

International Strategy
- Final

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

33% CRs Closed

100% of planned

MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO if
relevant)

CCM implemented for
all requests

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

66% CRs Closed

100% of planned MS
assessed (incl. impact
of earlier TO if relevant)

2026

CCM implemented
for all requests

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

100% CRs Closed

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier
TO if relevant)

2027

CCM implemented
for all requests

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier
TO if relevant)

99 In 2023, the Agency and the EC are putting together a practical implementation plan to address the acknowledged need for harmonisation in assessing and cleaning all the categories of rules (vehicle, Fl, safety/operational. Once agreed, the
milestones of this plan will be reflected in an update of the indicators for SAP 2023-2027 and SPD 2024, respectively.

122 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,


--- Page 125 ---
A6.Ensure proper
input/output for the
CSM ASLP work
stream”

A54. Increased performance
of SMS - draft new regulation
for harmonisation of Type 5
NSR

A6.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A6.2. Management of the
Group of Analysts (GoA)

A6.3. ISS development

A64. ISS operation

A6.5. CSM development

A6.6. CSM implementation

A6.7 CSM guidance/ training

ERA.1219

2022
baseline

35

2023

Draft new
regulation

4.18

GoA meetings
chaired

Beta version
finalised and tested

Recommendation
on Appendix C

Technical Opinion
on Appendix A
Updated according
to the lessons
learned

User support for
implementation
Guidance on safety
performance
published

2024

Draft new regulation
and develop
guidance/ training

5.5

Implementation of
GoA workplan during
CSM ASLP phase |
SAI/ SIS/ ERAIL
workflows integrated
Ist version on-line

Operation and
maintenance

Recommendation on
Appendix D

User support for
implementation
Guidance on
ISS functioning
published

2025

Develop guidance/
training

5.5

Management of GoA

Operation and
maintenance

User support for
implementation

Training delivered

2026

Deliver training

55

Management of
GoA

2nd version on-line

Operation and
maintenance

Simplification of
CSI/CST

User support for
implem.

Training delivered

2027

Deliver training

55

Management of
GoA

Operation and
maintenance

User support for
implem.

Training delivered

100 It is important that a dedicated source of funding be identified for the business description and the setting of the |SS tool, as well as the support for the Group of Analysts; in the absence of that, the outputs of the work from the CSM ASLP work-

stream risk to be lost.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 123


--- Page 126 ---
Annexes

A7.Ensure proper
input/output for the
digitalisation of
Agency's registers

A6.8 GOA/JNS

A7.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A7.2. Migration plan for the
individual registers to a linked
data approach, including

the standardization of
terminology through the ERA
terminology

A7.3. Migration of registers to
a knowledge graph approach
(no code needed anymore)

A7.4. Progress with the
specifications for multi-leg
ticketing

A7.5. Agency becoming a
registration entity for vehicles
at EU level

A766. Exploratory work for
Eurocontrol for railways,
including the traffic
management and economic
regulation aspects

ERA.1227
ERA.1226'

2022
baseline

3.44

2023

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

7.32

Draft migration
plan prepared

Proposal for EC
decision sent

2024

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

7.32

Migration plan
finalised

25%

Specifications
finalised

Workflows put in
place accordingly

Draft concept paper
developed and
discussed with EC

2025

Normal: GoA proposal
& ERA follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

6.22

50%

Final concept paper
agreed with EC

101 ERA1226 is included in the services contributing to the policy goal specifically through their workstream on digitalisation, excluding the daily running of the registers.

124 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

2026

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

55

75%

2027

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

55

100%


--- Page 127 ---
B. Ensure sustainable resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

pan ner            2023

B1. Ensure sustainable resourcing
for the authority tasks

B2. Ensure a 1st review of the
authority related processes

B1.1. No. of FTEs allocated VA excluding CTT

B1.2. No. of FTEs allocated VA CTT.

B1.3. No. of FTEs allocated SSC

B14. No. of FTEs allocated ERTMS TA

B1.5. Proportion of FTEs allocated to authority tasks
which are billed

B1.6 Overall FTEs redeployed from authority to
policy areas - cumulative values compared to
2022 baseline’

B2.1. Internal mid-term review of the matrix
organisation supporting authority tasks (including
AD/CA/AST split)

B2.2. List of identified improvements for a future legal
framework update to be provided to the EC

117
5
5.2
151

75%

-3,87

Mid-term review
performed

C. Ensure a reduction in the Agency’s administrative FTE allocation

11.7
48
51
15

75%

-4.21

Follow-up actions
implemented

List consolidated
and shared with EC

75%

4.51

75%

-4.91

75%

4.91

List consolidated
and shared with EC

Note 1: This objective is referred to the administrative FTE allocation, but encompasses a wide scope (e.g. redeploying administrative posts to operational activities, redeploying technical staff who
currently cover administrative tasks to operational tasks activities).

All references are to FTEs (not posts) to allow for counting savings and/or redeployments which account for partitions of one FTE.

Note 2: The sequencing is thought as follows:

i. Creating the capacity of potentially free FTEs through process leaning, including automation - as such, this does not account for a materialised saving, but is a pre-condition (step

C2)

ii. Identifying the opportunities to materialise that capacity — this can happen at contract end points (step C3)

iii. Having the FTEs freed from administrative work needs to be followed up by their actual redeployment in operational areas (step C4)

102 This reflects the re-visited assumptions for the use of ERA FTEs for VA, SSC, ERTMS TA compared to 2022 and also embeds a component of efficiency gains through simplification/automation of processes.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 125

--- Page 128 ---
Annexes

per         2023

C1. Process/deliverable/job
related workload analysis

C2. Creating room for
administrative FTEs capacity

C3. Materialising the FTE capacity
gained

C4. Redeploying the capacity to
operational activities

C5. Overall FTE target part C (non-
cumulative annual targets)

C1.1. Workload analysis for all processes (operational
and support) based on a consistent methodology

C1.2. Workload analysis at job level

C2.1.% of previously documented processes leaned,
including through automation'®

2.2. % of newly documented processes leaned by
design, as part of the Agency’s management system
linked to ICF

2.3. No. of FTEs saved by leaning secretarial, HR, IT,
financial services and administrative functions linked
to operational work

C24. No. of FTEs saved from optimising the Agency's
portfolio (clustering P/S, separating between genuine
S and processes, resorting to off-the-shelf IT products
etc.)

3.1. No of administrative FTEs not replaced (eg. after
retirement, invalidity procedure, leaving the Agency
etc.)

4.1. Training programme for the Strengthening Plan
put in place as part of the Agency's Learning and
Development plan

4.2. No. of administrative FTEs retrained through the
SP training programme, redeployed to operational
activities

43. No. of technical FTEs directly redeployed from
administrative tasks to technical work without the
need for training.

103 Baseline should be defined as a first step.

126 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

Delivered
Draft
20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Set up

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-0.5

2024

Finalised

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1.25

Target
2025

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-0.5

2026

Updated

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1

2027

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1


--- Page 129 ---
D. Ensure the projected FTE evolution by 2027

Target
2023                            2024                            2025                            2026                            2027

D1. Control the FTE trend              D1.1. No. of additional FTEs deployed to policy
evolution by 2027                        priority areas - cumulative values compared to 2022 | +11.23                   +17.92                   +15.82                   +14.10                   +14.10
baseline (based on part A above)

D1.2. No. of FTEs redeployed from authority to policy
tasks - cumulative values compared to 2022 baseline | -3,87                    -4.21                     -4.51                     -4.91                     -4.91
(based on B1.6 above)

D1.3. No. of FTEs gained through efficiency measures

— cumulative values, calculated based on the annual | -0.5                        -1.75                      -2.25                      -3.25                      -4.25
values from C5"
D14. Re-assessment of the additional FTE needs for                                Prepared and
policy activities                                                                         agreed with EC
D1.5. Gate way review of the targets                                                        Done                                                  Done
D1.6. Input provided to EC for the next MFF                                                                                    Provit
rovided

negotiations / any future Railway Package

E. Ensure effective and efficient budget management

Action                                                       Indicator
E1. Effective budget management | E1.1. % of subsidy appropriations committed              Min. 98%               Min. 98%               Min. 98%               Min. 98%               Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1        Max. 10% for 71        Max. 10% for 71        Max. 10% for T1        Max. 10% for 71
E1.2. % of carry forward to the next year                       Max. 20% for T2        Max. 20% for T2        Max. 20% for T2        Max. 20% for T2        Max. 20% for T2
Max. 30% for T3        Max. 30% for T3        Max. 30% for T3        Max. 30% for T3        Max. 30% for T3
E1.3. Salary gap structurally addressed                         -                             Done                      Done                      Done                      Done
E2.1. Real term savings in the support expenditure

E2. Efficient budget management                                                                  2%                     2%                     2%                     2%                     2%

(IT, FM)

104 This trend is based on the assumptions on FTE evolution for authority tasks as listed in line B1.6. Should the trend evolve in another direction, there will be a need to revisit the targets for B1.6, C5 and D1.1 in a coordinated manner.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 127

--- Page 130 ---
Annexes

128 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025

4. Governance and monitoring arrangements

The SAP 2023-2027 is endorsed by the Management Board and steered by the HoU CAP
under the coordination of the ED.

A dedicated Task Force is put in place for the period 2023-2027 to support the Action Plan
implementation, composed of:

™ HoU CAP (Oana Gherghinescu)

™ CAP team members (Thomas Willems, Koen Favyts Marta Lenarcik, Andrei Lixan-
dru)

™ A representative by unit, selected and nominated by the corresponding Hou, fol-
lowing an internal call for expression of interest (organised in Sep 2022)

Heads of Units/Heads of Departments will be accountable for their respective contribu-
tions. The involvement of the individual members in the Task Force is envisaged on a part
time basis, in addition to their daily tasks at the Agency.

Regular reporting is envisaged as follows:

® Internal regular iterations with the Agency's Management Team

™@ A dedicated section will be set up as part of the SPD Dashboard to monitor the
progress of the indicators listed in Chapter 2 of this document, by year of reference

™ The SPD Dashboard is presented at every regular EB and MB meeting, which offers
the possibility to MB members to regularly monitor the progress with the action
plan implementation

™ Agate review with the Management Board can be envisaged every two years to
make the necessary updates to the Action Plan, depending on the evolution in the
internal and external context of the Agency.

@ Annual reporting as part of the CAAR

Synergies with the Better Together and the HR strategy work streams will be carefully en-
sured by the Task Force.

5. Risks

The following risks are identified and assessed according to the matrix below:

|                                   Very likely
|                               Likely

Likelihood of      Possible
consequence

Unlikely

Very
unlikely

Negligible             Moderate | Significant

Impact

They will be monitored and addressed as part of Agency's risk register.

--- Page 131 ---
Budget related

Risk                         rears
EEC

The Agency is carefully monitoring the budget execution to strike the optimal use of
the existing resources in the spirit of sound financial management, while flagging early
warning signals in case of subsidy gaps. We will react by an agile approach, having
reserve lists in place but only conclude employment contracts when the budgetary
means are available.

1. The Agency might not be in the position to hire all 12 TAs in 2023 due to subsidy
constraints. The inflation trend poses significant pressure on the Agency's capacity to
cover the salary costs in the absence of sufficient additional EU subsidy.

2. The revenues from Fees and Charges are not under the full control of the Agency.
In particular, the volume of work can fluctuate due to seasonal trends during the year,
but also more structurally, upwards (e.g. the need for re-certification following DAC
deployment, go-everywhere trains etc.) or downwards (e.g. starting with the second
round of safety certification for the same RU at ERA, the complexity of the issues and
checks might drop compared to the first round).

Human resources and internal communication related

Risk                         »y
CRESTS

3. The changes in the working patterns, together with the financial consideration for
hiring at lower grades, might limit the attractiveness for the specialised technical jobs
offered by the Agency in the future. This might hamper the business continuity, talent
pool retention and by consequence, Agency's capacity to deliver the technical outputs
envisaged in this plan.

4. Inherent internal communication sensitivity around the choices made as part of
the action plan (non-replacement, redeployment etc). In addition, given this internal
redeployment, the pressure on legally binding administrative tasks will increase
exponentially.

The Agency will indeed tackle this aspect with attention, by highlighting and
supporting the opportunity of ensuring career paths from administrative tasks to
operational tasks. Natural end-of-contract gate reviews will be used.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 129

--- Page 132 ---
Annexes

Output related

5. With insufficient additional resources for the policy tasks, up to the full level of the
need, the Agency might not be in the position to support the EC in responding to
all standardisation areas linked to innovation over the next years. The allocation of
additional resources might need to be reopened during the lifecycle of this Action Plan
to identify priority areas for which the Agency's involvement is further expected.

6. Considering the complexity of the training program which could help redeploying
administrative staff to operational tasks, it might have a limited buy in and/or efficiency
and could require a period of time for completion which goes beyond the timeline of
the Strengthening Plan.

Other

Risk

Mitigati
assessment                                itigating measures

Risk                         rears
EEC

Ensuring a multi-annual continuity of the contribution agreement and an internal
coordination of the system pillar work directly linked to the Railway System activities
(ERTMS, TSls, Safety).

7. |n 2021, the Agency received a grant for its System Pillar workstream. While the grant
provides the Agency with 3 FTEs to cover for this work until May 2025. In the absence of
an extension, there is a risk of business continuity for this stream of activities.

4

130 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2023-2025,

--- Page 133 ---
Getting in touch with the EU

In person

All over the European Union there are hundreds of Europe Direct

information centres. You can find the address of the centre nearest you at:
https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en

On the phone or by email

Europe Direct is a service that answers your questions about the European Union.
You can contact this service:

=- by freephone: 00 800 67 8 9 10 11 (certain operators may charge for these calls),
at the following standard number: +32 22999696 or

— by email via: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en

Finding information about the EU
Online

Information about the European Union in all the official languages of the EU

is available on the Europa website at: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en

EU publications

You can download or order free and priced EU publications at:
https://publications.europa.eu/en/publications. Multiple copies of free publications
may be obtained by contacting Europe Direct or your local information centre

(see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).

EU law and related documents

For access to legal information from the EU, including all EU law since 1952 in all the official
language versions, go to EUR-Lex at: http://eur-lex.europa.eu

Open data from the EU

The EU Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en) provides access to datasets
from the EU. Data can be downloaded and reused for free, both for commercial and
non-commercial purposes.

--- Page 134 ---
European Union Agency for Railways
120 rue Marc Lefrancq

BP 20392

FR-59307 Valenciennes Cedex

Tel. +33 (0)327 09 65 00

era.europa.eu
Twitter@ERA_railways

Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe railway
system without frontiers.

EUROPEAN

Publications Office

UNION                                                 of the European Union
AGENCY
FOR RAILWAYS

