
--- Page 1 ---
European Union
Agency for
Railways

Single
Programming
Document
2025-2027

—
sw     Mion
Ze ise

FOR RAILWAYS

--- Page 2 ---
Printed by XXX in xxxx
Manuscript completed in November 2024

Neither the Agency nor any person acting on behalf of the Agency is responsible for the use
which might be made of the following information.

Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2024

PRINT — ISBN 978-92-9477-474-3  doi:10.2821/4724111 TR-01-24-003-EN-C
PDF  ISBN 978-92-9477-473-6  doi:10.2821/4703801 TR-01-24-003-EN-N

Photo credits: © sahachat (cover), Markus Mainka (p. 14), Leonid Andronov (p. 17), Marco2811 (p. 46), Jonas Mittag (p.65)/
stock.adobe.com

© European Union Agency for Railways, 2023

Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. For any use or reproduction of individual
photos or illustrations, permission must be sought directly from the copyright holders.

--- Page 3 ---
Contents

@ Ill. Annual Work programme 2025

List of acronyms
Foreword
Mission statement
I. General context

Il. Multi-annual programming 2025-2027
| A. Structure of the multiannual programme 2025-2027...
| 8. Content of the multiannual programme 2025-2027.......

| 81.

| 82.

| B3.
| 84.
| B5.
| B6.

| 87.

| B8.

| © Human and financial resources - outlook for the years 2025-2027
| ci.
| c2.
| c3.
| c4.
| cs.

| A. Executive summary.....
| B. Programmes ()..

| Ba.

Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and
operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by
rail, assets can be reused throughout Europe.....                            7
Strategic statement 2 & 3 - Rail will become the backbone that
supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport
system and will be favoured as a transport mode by the new
generation; rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as
a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including
multi-leg ticketing...                                                          ee
Strategic statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure
mode of transport for its users and workers.......
Strategic statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to
emergency situations...                                                               ee
Strategic statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically
competitive as a mode and as a sector...                                    7
Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for
rail and ERA authorisations will be globally recognised
Strategic statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and
efficient governance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the
best value for money to citizens and business in the EU........
Strategic statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performant working
environment, based on high-quality motivated human resources and
a collaborative behaviour...

Overview of the past and current situatio!
Outlook for the years 2025 - 2027...
Resource programming for the years 2025 - 2027.
Strategy for achieving efficiency gains...
Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks.

Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and
operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by
rail, assets can be reused throughout Europe........


--- Page 4 ---
| B.2. Strategic statement 2 & 3 - Rail will become the backbone that
supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport
system and will be favoured as a transport mode by the new
generation; rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as
a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including
multi-leg ticketing                                                 se
| B.3. Strategic Statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure
mode of transport for its users and workers.......                          se
| BA. Strategic Statement 5 — Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to
emergency situations.......                                          -
| B.5. Strategic Statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically
competitive as a mode and as a sector...                                      .
| B.6. Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for
rail and ERA authorisations will be globally recognised.....
| B.7. Strategic Statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and
efficient governance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the
best value for money to citizens and business in the EU...
| B.8. Strategic Statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performa nt working
environment, based on high-quality motivated human resources and
a collaborative behaviour...

IV. Annexes

| Annex |. Organisational chart.
| Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity 2025-2027 ()
| Annex III. Financial resources.
| AJ. Revenue..
| A2. Expenditure:
| A3. Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations...

| Annex IV. Human Resources 2025-2027 - quantitative...
| A.1. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff...
| A2. Multiannual staff policy plan 2023-2027...                           se
| A3. Recruitment forecasts 2025 following retirement / mobility or new
requested posts......

| Annex V. Human Resources 2025-2027 - qualitative.
| A. Recruitment (engagement) policy.......
| AJ. Implementing rules in place
| A.2. Selection and engagement procedures
| A3. Temporary agents
| A4. Contract agents
| AS. Seconded National Experts ()
| A©. Trainees......
| A7. Structural service providers....

| 8. Appraisal and reclassification / promotion
| B.1. Implementing rules in place..
| B.2. Reclassification of temporary staff
| B.3. Reclassification of contract staff...
| B4. Mobility policy...
| C. Gender representation
| C1. Data n 31/12/2023 statutory staff (only officials, TAs and CAs)
| D. Geographical balance
| D.1. Officials, TAs, and CA:
| D.2. Evolution of 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency

2| EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 5 ---
.91
.92
.92
.92

| E._ Schooling

| Annex VI. Environment management

| A.1. Executive summary......
| A2. ERA in the broader policy context related to environmen
| A3. Environmental impacts of ERA activities ......                           .95
| A4. Accountability ceiling of ERA....                                    .95
| A5. Environment management initiatives and actions completed in 2024 96
| A6. Environment management achievements of ERA until 202
| A7. Environment management initiatives and planned actions
| A8. Current status and plan for certifications and standards ..

| Annex VII. Building policy - year 2025
| AJ. Current building(s)...
| A2. Building project in the planning phase.....
| A3. Building projects submitted to the European Parliament and Council

| Annex Vill. Privileges and immunities

| Annex IX. Evaluations

| Annex X. Strategy for the organisational management and internal
control systems

| Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution, or service-level agreements

| Annex XII. Strategy for cooperation with third countries and/or
international organisations

| Annex XIII. Procurement plan
| Annex XIV. Strengthening Action Plan
| AJ. Context...
| A2. What we want to achiev
| A3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and target:
| A4. Governance and monitoring arrangements
| AS. Risks.....

--- Page 6 ---
Table1-Human resources 2023-2025 ().…
Table 2- Revenues 2023-2025...
Table 3 - Expenditure 2023-202.
Table 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2025-2027..
Table 5 — Human resources - Outlook 2025-2027 ()
Table 6 - Number of posts for each organisational entity ().....
Table 7 - Overview of revenues
Table 7 - Overview of revenues
Table 8 - General revenue

Table 9 - Overview on additional EU funding

Table 11 - Expenditure.

Table 12 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)...

Table 14 - Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

Table 16 - Structural service providers ().....
Table 17 - Interim workers
Table 18 - Temporary Agents.
Table 19 - Contract Agents

Table 21 - Recruitment forecast.

Table 23 - Reclassification of temporary staff.
Table 24 - Reclassification of contract staff ()
Table 25 - Data on 31/12/2023 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Table 26 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle and

Table 27 - Data on 31/12/2023 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA).

Table 28 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in

Table 30 - Privileges granted to staff

Table 31 - Grant, contributions, or service-level agreements.

Table 33 - Planned use in 2025 of existing ERA framework contracts.

List of Tables

Table 10 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level

agreements...

able 13 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)

Table 15 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant,

contribution or service-level agreements ()

able 20 - Seconded National Experts

Table 22 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and

reclassification / promotion...

Senior management

the Agency...
able 29 - Current building(s)

able 32 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2025...

Table 34 - Planned use in 2025 of existing inter-institutional framework

contracts

4| EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 7 ---
List of acronyms

AD                    Administrator

AMOCS                 Acceptable Means of Compliance

AO                    Authorising Officer

AOD                   Authorising Officer by Delegation

AR                     Agency Regulation

ASLP                 Assessment of Safety Level and Performance

AST                    Assistant

ATO                      Automatic Train Operations

BoA                   Board of Appeal

BCA                      Baseline Compatibility Analysis

CA                            Contract Agent

CAAR                   Consolidated Annual Activity Report

CCM                     Change Control Management

ccs                  Control Command and Signalling

CEOS                    Conditions of Employment of Other Servants

COR                   Common Occurrence Reporting

COVID-19             Coronavirus pandemic (SARS-CoV-2)

CSIs                   Common Safety Indicators

CSMs                   Common Safety Methods

CSTs                   Common Safety Targets

CUI                  Common User Interface

DAC                      Digital Automatic Coupler

DG BUDG             Directorate-General for Budget

DG DIGIT             Directorate-General for Informatics

DG MOVE               Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport

DG NEAR            Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement
Negotiations

Dol                       Declaration of Interest

EASA                 European Union Aviation Safety Agency

EB                     Executive Board

EC                     European Commission

ECA                   European Court of Auditors

ECM                    Entity in Charge of Maintenance

EECT                  Extended ERA Core Team

EFTA                    European Free Trade Association

EMSA                   European Maritime Safety Agency

EPSO                 European Personnel Selection Office

ERA                  European Union Agency for Railways

ERADIS               ERA Database on Interoperability and Safety

ERATV                  European Register of Authorised Types of Vehicles

EU Rail JU            Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking

ERSAD                 European Railway Stations Accessibility Database

LIST OF ACRONYMS | 5

--- Page 8 ---
ERTMS               European Rail Traffic Management System

ESG                     Economic Steering Group

ESO                    European Standardisation Organisation

ETCS                 European Train Control System

EU                   European Union

EUAN                  EU Agencies Network

EUMedRail          EuroMed Rail Safety and Interoperability Project
EVR                       European Vehicle Register

FFR                    Framework Financial Regulation

FM                     Facility Management

FRMCS                Future Railway Mobile Communication System
FTE                    Full Time Equivalent

FWC                     Framework Contract

GoA                      Group of Analysts

GSM R              Global System for Mobile Communications (Railway)
HOF                  Human and Organisational Factors

HQ                    Headquarters

HR                     Human Resources

IAS                        Internal Audit Service of the Commission

ICC                    Internal Control Coordinator

ICF                  Internal Control Framework

ICT                    Information and Communication Technologies
IM                        Infrastructure Manager

IMCS                Internal Management and Control System

IMS                    Integrated Management System

INEA                  The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency
loA                       Inventory of Assets

IPA                     Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance

IRSC                    International Railway Safety Council

Iso                     International Organisation for Standardization
ISS                    Information Sharing System

IT                         Information Technology

JNS                       Joint Network Secretariat

JU                     Joint Undertaking

KPI                     Key Performance Indicator

LaaS                   Logistic as a Service

MaaS                   Mobility as a Service

MB                    Management Board

MFF                 Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union
MMRR                Monthly Monitoring Review Report

MS                    Member State of the European Union

MT                    Management Team

NIB                  National Investigation Body

NOBO               Notified Body

NSA                   National Safety Authority

NTRs                National Technical Rules

NVR                   National Vehicle Register

6 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 9 ---
OSJD
Oss
OTIF
PCP
PoE
Pg
PgM
PgO
PR
P/S
PRM
RASCOP
RBs
RDD
Reg.
RFC
RINF
RISC
RMR
RSD
RSG
RU
SAIT
SAP
scs
SERA
SLA
SM
SMS
SNE
SO
SP
SPD
SPSG
SRD
SSC
TA
TA
TAF
TAP
TDG
TSI
UIC
VA
VKM
WP
4RP

Organization for Co-operation between Railways
One-Stop Shop

Organisation for International Carriage by Rail
Priority Countries Programme

Pool of Experts

Programme

Programme Manager

Programme Owner

Public Relation

Project/ Service

Persons with reduced mobility

Rail Standardisation Coordination Platform
Recognition Bodies

Reference Document Database

EC Regulation

Rail Freight Corridors

Register of Infrastructures

Railway Interoperability and Safety Committee
Radio Mobile for Railways

Railway Safety Directive

Research Steering Group

Railway Undertaking

Safety Alert IT Tool

Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027
Safety Culture Survey

Single European Railway Area

Service Level Agreement

Service Manager

Safety Management System
Seconded National Expert

Service Owner

Safety Performance

Single Programming Document
System Pillar steering group

Single Rules Database

Single Safety Certificate

Temporary Agent

Trackside Approvals

Telematics Applications for Freight
Telematics Applications for Passenger Services
Transport of Dangerous Goods
Technical Specifications for Interoperability
International Union of Railways
Vehicle Authorisation

Vehicle Keeper Marking

Work Programme

Fourth Railway Package

LIST OF ACRONYMS | 7

--- Page 10 ---
Foreword

Since its creation 20 years ago, ERA has been supporting the European railway stakehold-
ers, carrying out an ever-increasing set of crucial tasks for the EU railways.

After ten years of mandate as ERA Executive Director, | am proud of the achievements the
Agency has realised and | remain confident that it will bring even more added value to
the railway sector in the future, especially with the progressive development of the Single
European Railways Area, in line with the political guidelines and priorities expressed
for the new European Commission

In the recent years, we have witnessed many worrying trends, such as the resurgence of
war on the European continent, certain macroeconomic challenges, as well as increas-
ingly serious climate change impacts across the world. In such worrying environment,
transport has a crucial role to play, not only in ensuring the safe transport of people and
goods, but as well in the decarbonisation of the sector and its adaptability to a changing
climate. With only 5 years remaining before the 2030 objectives set in the EC Sustainable
and Smart Mobility Strategy, it will be essential to ensure sustained progress towards the
achievement of the set targets. Safety is also a crucial element for railways, and we need
to ensure the appropriate measures and checks are in place to continuously improve it."A
sustainable, safe European transport system without frontiers” does therefore not only rep-
resent our Agency's vision statement, but also reflects the ambition the rail sector at large.

Josef Doppelbauer

In line with its mandate, the European Union Agency for Railways aims at covering a wide
range of areas of work, involving actions to drive the continuation of the progress with
railway safety and interoperability, together with its role of EU-wide authority for Vehicle
Authorisation, Single Safety Certification, and ERTMS Trackside Approval

The multi-annual work programme 2025-2027, together with the annual programme
2025 have been planned and prepared following the principles of the intervention log-
ic. In addition, the work programme was prepared reflecting the conclusions of the SPD
2025 Workshop held with the Management Board in June 2023.

The year 2025 will also be an important milestone for our Authority activities, as it marks
the sixth year since the start of the Agency's Authority activities according to the tech-
nical pillar of the 4" Railway Package. The Agency has significant experience in run-
ning the tasks related to its Authority role, as well as in forecasting their volume to the
best extent possible. However, the volatility of the applications and their volumes can still
greatly differ from one year to the other, which renders the planning of activities and the
letailed forecast of revenues somewhat complex. It is important to note that the Agency
has reached an increasingly higher maturity level with the processing of authorisation and
certification tasks, which has a potential for driving a higher efficiency in their delivery.

In addition, in 2025, the Agency will enter the second half of the implementation of the
Strengthening Action Plan, highlighting the critical importance of areas of works such
as: TSIs and national rules clean up, ERTMS, CSM ASLP, the monitoring of NSAs and NoBos,
as well as data and digitalization. As a result, the Agency received an increase of 12 tem-
porary agent posts (TAs) starting in 2023, which should be entirely covered through the
Agency's existing stream of revenues. The latter represents a significant challenge, espe-
cially in the context of a volatile pattern of inflation. Continuously, the Agency is making a
thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these costs in a sustainable manner until the
end of MFF 2021-2027. This is duly reflected in the current SPD 2025.

The SPD 2025 reflects the Strengthening Action Plan through the assignment of the addi-
tional posts, as well as the internal redeployment following efficiency gains to the priority
areas identified in the Strengthening Plan. Additionally, the Agency is making sustained

8 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 11 ---
efforts for a combined response to the resourcing challenge by increasing the direct uti-
lisation of its resources, both in terms of budget and FTEs. The SPD reflects equally the
workload related to the new TSI revision package, including the planned work in relation
to the definition of specifications for the innovation stemming from the EU Rail JU.

The Agency keeps a strong commitment to deploying the necessary resources to meet
the legal deadlines related to issuing of VA, SSC and ERTMS Trackside approvals, while also
respecting the deadlines for its safety and interoperability policy related activities, all of
which contribute to the achievement of the high-level policy objectives of the 4th Railway
Package. The decision time linked to the authority tasks has undeniably a tremendous
impact on the rail stakeholders and on the competitiveness of rail compared with other
sectors. The year 2025 appears marked with peaks of work in the field of the authorisation
tasks, especially linked to the ambitious ERTMS and DAC programmes in Europe. This pos-
es a significant pressure on the Agency in terms of resource availability in order to respect
the legal deadlines, which will need to be carefully handled.

In response to the tragic rail accident in Greece in February 2023, with unmeasurable hu-
man loss and drastic economic impacts, the Agency has developed a strategic paper with
proposals to enhance the structural response in Europe to avoid such accidents in other
Member States affected by the same weaknesses and failures in their respective national
rail systems.

This strategic paper titled ‘Strengthening Operational Safety (SOS) in Europe, endorsed by
the Management in 2023, proposes 2 key initiatives based on a detailed problem analysis,
clear objectives and business requirements, including the estimation of budget and FTEs:

| The Priority Countries Programme (PCP), entailing a risk-based approach in
order to identify the key areas of intervention to consistently safeguard and boost
safety levels across the EU Member States;

四 The Information Sharing System (ISS), as a centralized, pro-active, performing
and technology-proof Information Sharing System for railways in the EU to sup-
port the implementation of the CSM ASLP.

While such initiatives have the potential of boosting operational safety across the EU, there
is unfortunately not an associated legal and financial statement. The Agency will continue
to work closely with the EC and with the MSs for unlocking this important stream of work
in the future.

| would like to assure the members of the Management Board that the Agency will continue
to implement the mechanism already put in place for a regular monitoring of the SPD
implementation in terms of outputs delivery and resource consumption, as well as of the
Strengthening Action Plan. The Agency will also continue to improve the set of budget ex-
ecution monitoring actions already established to make best use of the available budget
appropriations. The Agency will continue to strengthen its tools to better plan, monitor, and
report so as to continuously increase its data-driven, transparent, and efficient working cul-
ture. In addition, more efforts will be produced to achieve more with less resources, as well as
ensuring that the processes within the Agency are streamlined to deliver high-quality results
to all our stakeholders, in line with the Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027.

The Agency will also continue to work closely with its stakeholders in order to ensure the
successful implementation of this challenging multi-annual programme in line with the
priorities of the new European Commission. These activities of the Agency are crucial
for contributing to the achievement of a significant modal shift to rail, in particular by help-
ing to create and manage a Single European Rail Area, and to continuously improve railway
safety in Europe. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to progress towards a culture
of collaboration in the Agency. | would like to thank the ERA staff and all our stakeholders
for their dedication and support, that | am sure will continue for the years to come, as we
will work towards an improved European transport system, multimodal in nature, with rail as
its backbone, eventually benefitting from a fully functioning Single European Railway Area

Josef Doppelbauer

FOREWORD | 9

--- Page 12 ---
Mission statement

The vision and mission statements of the Agency (“A sustainable, safe European transport
system without frontiers” and “Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe railway sys-
tem without frontiers’, respectively) were defined in 2021. They reflect its current position
and role, while of course remaining fully in line with the legal mandate of the Agency.

The Agency contributes to the further development and effective functioning of a Single
European Railway Area without frontiers, by guaranteeing a high level of railway safety
and interoperability, while improving the competitive position of the railway sector, as en-
visaged by the Agency Regulation 2016/796. In particular, the Agency shall contribute, on
technical matters, to the implementation of Union legislation by developing a common
approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhancing the level of interoperabil-
ity on the Union rail system and associated data, with a specific focus on facilitating the
interoperable deployment of ERTMS and on access to data for pushing rail modernisation
and digitalisation. By working in close cooperation with the national authorities acting in
the fields of railway safety and interoperability, the Agency will substantially contribute
to an increased competitiveness of rail and to the seamless cross-border traffic in the EU.
Moreover, through timely delivery of appropriate regulation that reflects the harmonised
and validated solution proposals from the Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking, the Agency
contributes significantly to the coordinated and rapid deployment of such solutions, thus
strengthening the competitiveness of rail in the transport mix. All these elements are
translated into rail becoming more attractive and affordable for passengers and freight,
with the Agency playing an active role in supporting the delivery of the European Green
Deal for the EU citizens and businesses.

Vision statement

To foster its mission, the Agency has identified the following fundamentals (F) and ena-
blers (B):

10 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 13 ---
ERA Fundamentals: Attributes

All our decisions are determined to                We acknowledge and take into                    Our decisions are made with                 We define our priorities and monitor
serve the common good and the                account the legacy of the EU rail              impartiality, integrity and objectivity.               them in a transparent manner.
public interest.                                 system, the complexity of the                   Our loyalty to the organisation and                 We evaluate the effects of all our
:                                    interactions between the various              each other is essential to achieve our             actions on staff and stakeholders.
:                                     modes of transport and levels of               mission. We resolve conflicts based              This serves as input to drive future
decision.                                            on mutual respect.                                        improvement.

Our collaborative analysis supports                   We are looking for learning                       We value the diversity of our                   In the allocation of resources, we

decisions based on objective data.               opportunities internally and with               team and encourage a supportive               primarily consider ERAS priorities
‘                                  external partners. We learn from errors           cooperation among all staff without                while caring for the wellbeing
                                 rather than to blame. We see feedback            distinction striving for excellence.                 off staff and the impact on the

as away to improve our performance.                                                                                    stakeholders.

We are all aware of ERAS mission                 We continuously analyse who are                ERA is a good place to work with a                  We adopt an innovative spirit

and we are committed to support              our direct and indirect stakeholders            strong sense of belonging, pride and                considering rules as a tool and

together the achievement of our                    and their needs. We adopt an                                   fulfilment.                                    not an objective. We reward
business objectives.                          exploratory and impartial attitude                                       :                                             performance at all levels.

to propose measures for their
problems, needs and opportunities.

MISSION STATEMENT | 11

--- Page 14 ---
Mission statement

INTERACTING

Teamwork
and collaboration

Collaboration within and across
organisations is nurtured.

GD)       Interpersonal values.

Trust, respect and openness
permeate the organisation and
characterise inter-organisational
relationships at all levels.

GD)  Regulatory relationships

Healthy regulatory relationships exist
and ensure that the accountability

remains with the Agency

Organisational cultural enablers: Attributes

FORMALISING

Roles
and responsibilities

Roles, responsibilities and authorities
are understood and accepted.

@)     Organisational design

Organisational structures support
the achievement of mission and

organisational excellence.

@)  Organisational systems

Processes, tools and documentation
support the achievement of mission
and organisational excellence.

12 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

@)     Communication

Information is openly shared within

and across organisations.

@)  Competence management

Competence management ensures
a knowledgeable workforce.

@)          Soft skills

Leadership and non-technical skills
are systematically developed.

REINFORCING

Leading by example

Managers exhibit behaviours that
set the standard.

Management intervention

Managers ensure that incentives,
sanctions and recognition reinforce
behaviours and outcomes that
support the achievement of mission
and organisational excellence.

HOF expertise

Human and organisational factors,
including frontline experience, are
systematically considered during
design and change.

--- Page 15 ---
Through its mission and actions, the Agency is committed to contribute to the EC Political

guidelines:

The Agency will support the EC agenda to ensure sustainable, safe, affordable, and acces-
sible transport and to strengthen railways’ role in the transport mix, in line with its mission

a European Green Deal
an economy that works for people
a Europe fit for the digital age

a stronger Europe in the world

and mandate.

MISSION STATEMENT | 13

--- Page 16 ---

--- Page 17 ---
Transport is an essential part of the European integration, especially given its contribution
to the functioning of the free movement of services, goods, and people. Transport also
represents around 9% of the EU gross added value and directly employs around 11 mil-
lion workers, therefore representing an important sector for society at large. EU transport
policies have been developed according to the key principles of safety, sustainability, resil-
ience, connectivity, and efficiency.

Through its long-term vision for the transport sector and European society, the European
Commission published in 2020 the Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy with a de-
tailed action plan of 82 initiatives. With this strategy, the Commission presents how the
EU transport system will achieve its needed green and digital transformation and become
more resilient. As outlined in the European Green Deal, the result will be a 90% cut in
carbon emissions by 2050. Regarding the rail sector, the following targets have been set:

® Traffic on high-speed rail will double by 2030;
® Rail freight traffic will increase by 50% by 2030 and double by 2050;

® By 2030, rail and waterborne-based intermodal transport will be able to compete
on equal footing with road-only transport in the EU.

The European Union Agency for Railways will support the European Commission, in line
with its accountability ceiling, in achieving these goals, in particular through the further
development and effective functioning of a Single European Railway Area without fron-
tiers.

The 2025-2027 programming period for the Agency involves two different types of activ-
ities:
® The policy tasks contributing to the implementation of Union legislation by devel-
oping a common approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhancing
the level of interoperability on the Union rail system, taking into account the pol-
icy priorities identified in the Strengthening Plan and implemented through the
Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027.

® The fully fledged performance of the Agency's tasks as EU-wide authority for safety
certification, vehicle authorisation and ERTMS trackside approval, along with other
tasks in the field of railway safety and interoperability as foreseen in the Technical
Pillar of the Fourth Railway Package.

The Agency continues to implement its work programme following the principles of the
intervention logic, in line with the guidelines provided by the Network of EU Agencies. The
intervention logic supports the Agency by emphasising the desired changes and the road
to its achievement. It is also a thinking process supporting the Agency to design, reconsid-
er, and adapt its outputs to the most effective one for a determined outcome.

The Agency also strives to increase its efficiency in delivering the outcomes and impacts
expected by EU citizens. In light of the above, the work programme of the Agency (in its
multi-annual and annual planning) is organised around seven strategic statements, which
project the Agency’s role in relation to its stakeholders, complemented by two transver-
sal strategic statements, which capture the Agency's governance and support functions.
These strategic statements have been in place since the adoption of SPD 2022-2024 and
are extremely important, as they show the direction of travel on which the Agency plans
to embark in order to make railways work better for society, subject of course to its remit
and accountability ceiling.

In addition, SPD 2025-2027 will follow and align itself with the actions and resource allo-
cations detailed in the Strengthening Action Plan adopted by the MB in November 2022.
The seven priority areas will be highlighted in the annual section and their importance
will be reflected both in terms of FTE and budget allocation. Of course, the Agency will
remain flexible and redeploy resources if needed but this innovative approach provides
a roadmap for all stakeholders regarding the areas on which the Agency will focus in the
coming years.

GENERAL CONTEXT | 15

--- Page 18 ---
General context

Thanks to a joint effort with the European Commission and the support from the Man-
agement Board, the Agency was granted 12 additional TAs to its establishment plan to
implement the Strengthening Plan. However, these additional resources must be financed
within the existing budget envelope, with no additional subsidy allocation, which creates
a budgetary pressure on the Agency. In addition, the volatility related to indexation adds
an addition degree of uncertainty. The Agency will closely monitor all factors impacting
the budget and will revise and revisit its proposal in the course of 2024 with caution and
regularity.

The Agency will also pay significant attention to a regular monitoring of the SPD imple-
mentation in terms of outputs, resource consumption and revenues, which can allow for
agile responses and possible adaptation of its work programme.

Starting 2025, the Agency will implement a new portfolio structure based on 22 pro-
grammes instead of 69 projects and services in order to streamline the portfolio adminis-
tration and to have a more meaningful and efficient deployment of budget and FTEs, in
line with the actual areas of work. The Agency will also complete in 2025 a key deliverable
from the SAP: the leaning of all the Agency's processes. By the completion of this impor-
tant milestone, the Agency should gain efficiency and further streamline its administrative
workstream.

The Agency will also continue to work with the pool of experts for the mutual benefit of
the cooperation between the Agency and the NSAs. This cooperation may also help the
Agency to tackle capacity shortages, as well as language skills gaps. In addition, the Agen-
cy will strive for continuously improving its efficiency in delivering the expected outputs,
as well as its overall performance in contributing to the expected outcomes and impacts.

16 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 19 ---
ll. Multi-annual programming
2025-2027


--- Page 20 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A. Structure of the multiannual programme 2025-2027

The structure of the Agency's multi-annual work programme is organised according to 9
strategic statements:

| Strategic Statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational
barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail, assets can be reused
throughout Europe.

| Strategic Statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an envi-
ronmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will be favoured as a
transport mode by the new generations.

| Strategic Statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and Maas (Mobility as
a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including multi-leg tick-
eting.

| Strategic Statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of
transport for its users and workers.

| Strategic Statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergen-
cy situations.

| Strategic Statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive
as a mode and as a sector.

| Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA
authorisations will be globally recognised.

| Strategic Statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient gov-
ernance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the best value for money to
citizens and business in the EU

| Strategic Statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performant working environ-
ment, based on high quality motivated resources and a collaborative behaviour.

Following guidance from the EU Agencies’ network on the SPD, the Agency proposed for
SPD 2023-2025 to use the intervention logic on these strategic statements to identify im-
pact and outcomes. With SPD 2024-2026, the Agency added a new concept: intermediate
outcome. Given that outcomes are quite difficult to influence directly from outputs, the
concept of intermediate outcomes is interesting given its more direct link with the Agency
and its influence on outcomes.

+ Accountability ceiling

Intermediate
SS ee « ee  ones  一区 Ri ou |

Intervention

Level of
influence

The Agency has therefore started to develop intermediate outcomes in each strategic
statement. For intermediate outcomes, a set of common interventions was defined by
the Agency:

18 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 21 ---
Building knowledge                                                   Monitoring and analysing
ERA / sector builds non-existing knowledge                       ERA monitors the sector and its progress

Regulating                                                     pocinitees     force / teint
EU laws and regulations are put in place to          = PH Possiiiities to enforce / reinforce measures
to improve the current status in the railway

achieve the desired outcome
sector

@ Knowledge sharing
4         = ERA shares knowledge with the sector (i.e.
training, reports, etc)

These types of interventions support the multiannual work programme and assess where
additional work is most needed to achieve the desired outcomes. The multiannual section
will also reflect the results of the MB workshop on SPD 2025-2027 which took place in
June 2023.

In addition, it should be noted that the resource arbitration exercise for the year 2025 was
further developed and intensified. Indeed, it followed the key principles and areas of prior-
ities detailed in the Strengthening Action Plan (annex XIV). In addition, the Agency priori-
tised through the identification of the anticipated added value of activities, as well as their
potential contribution towards the desired outcomes. The Agency followed a data-driven
approach, looking at previous year’s resource consumption, as well as the deliverables
description for each programme.

B. Content of the multiannual programme 2025-2027

For its 2025-2027 work programme, the Agency considers the possible ways of balancing
the demand for its authority work on one hand and the ambition level for the priority areas
detailed in the Strengthening Plan, on the other hand. The authorisations, certificates and
approvals issued by the Agency have a direct impact on the functioning of the rail sector
and bring much added value in terms of safety and interoperability.

Furthermore, should the required additional resources become available, the Agency
would implement, together with Member States, a Priority Country Programme (PCP)
which is a strategic initiative that aims to assess and monitor the state of railway safety and
interoperability legislation implementation in Member States providing a comprehensive
picture of railway safety and helping the MS to identify areas for improvement. In this
perspective, the Agency has additionally developed a robust business case for the devel-
opment of a supporting Information Sharing System (ISS), whose objective is to improve
railway safety in the European Union through the sharing and analysis of relevant safety infor-
mation, supported by a pro-active, performing and technology-proof system of data exchange.

In addition, the strategic role in policy development, research and innovation, and advice
provided by the Agency is recognised as highly important and should continue to be
strengthened. It is equally important to highlight the possible role of the Agency to mon-
itor and support the adequate implementation of the existing legal framework through
a harmonised level of maturity both at the levels of operators and national authorities.
To make its operations always more efficient and effective, the Agency will continue to
implement to its full extent the continuous improvement approach to its portfolio and
programme management and make sure that its resources are deployed in those activi-
ties where it can have the highest impact and added value for the railway sector and the
EU citizens. The Agency will also continue to develop its workstream on cybersecurity and
will liaise with ENISA to explore future scope for cooperation. Following the cybersecurity
regulation, the Agency will need to increase its resources spent on this item, which is re-
flected in the Annual Work Programme.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 19

--- Page 22 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

The breakdown of FTE and budget distribution by Strategic Statement over the 2024-2027
period are shown in the following charts.

Figure 1 - FTE distribution by strategic statement

2024

2025

2026

2027

0                 10                20                30                40                50                60                70                80                90               100
ff Stst1    Bf Stst2&3     1) Stst4     ~ Stst5    ‘ Stst6 ff Stst7 ff Ststs    > Stst9

Figure 2 - Budget distribution by strategic statement

2024

2025

2026

2027

0                 1 000 000           2000 000           3 000 000           4000 000           5 000 000           6 000 000
[Stst1 =f Stst2&3         1) Stst4        | StstS «| Stst6 = J Stst7 目Stst8       ) Stst9

20 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 23 ---
The following table lists the main Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for 2025:

Q

Strategic
Statement

1

o © 0 © © w

Key Performance Indicator

TSI revision

CCSTSI Maintenance and operational activities
for CCS Framework

No. of NoBo audits/inspections performed per
year

Register’s related service requests by customers
processed (reply provided to customer)

Issuing SSC / VA / ERTMS TA - Proportion of
decisions taken according to the legal framework
deadlines

No. of NSA audit performed
Group of Analysts/JNS

Delivery of the activities as planned in the
Communication & Dissemination Plan and at
least one annual report on those activities to MB.
% Of the annual appropriations committed

% Execution of carry over payment
appropriations

% Payments made by contractual deadline

Output achievement rate

Implementation of the Strengthening Action
Plan
% Implementation of the establishment plan

% Implementation of the external personnel (')
plan

Staff turnover
% Availability of the core ICT systems

Service Desk users’ satisfaction feedback "Good/
Excellent" rate

CA + SNE combined

Target
Progress report to RISC in
June 2025
Update CCS TSI with error
corrections

20

Within 10 working days, as
determined in the service
level agreement

100%

9
Fast track and normal
procedures managed
according to plan

Delivered as planned

98%
>95%

95%
Increase of achievement
rate compared with the
previous year

Implemented following
the SAP deadlines
>98%

>98%

Less than 5%
95%

>70%

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 21

--- Page 24 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B1. Strategic statement 1 -

Delivering VA                                               Manage ERTMS

lonf term
rity Tasks Support     evolution

Railway

opertation

harmoni-
Interoperable data                                       sation

In the field of Railway Interoperability, the Agency has identified so far six intermediate
outcomes that it can actively influence through its portfolio of TSIs, ERTMS, National rules,
and Registers services. They are essential components, which will lead to the achievement
of the strategic statement. The already identified intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. ERTMS is fully implemented on rolling stock by all Railway Undertakings
2. ERTMS is fully implemented on railway infrastructure by all Infrastructure Managers
3. All railway rolling stock is TSI compliant by all RUs across the EU. (exc. TAP/TAF & OPE)

4. All railway infrastructure is TS! compliant by all IMs across the EU

5. National rules (rolling stock & fixed installation) are harmonised across the EU

6. All relevant railway-related data is shared in an open and transparent way so that it
is utilisable and useful for the sector

Of course, this list will continue to evolve in the future to include additional intermediate
outcomes, as the Agency continues to pursue its full implementation of the intervention
logic.

Following the results of the MB workshop in June 2023 on SPD 2025-2027, where the Man-
agement Board expressed its desire for the Agency to propose more knowledge sharing
activities, such as training, and other dissemination activities, the Agency will strengthen
its activities in this domain. Such activities will be coordinated by the ERA Academy, being
the established knowledge sharing vehicle of the Agency. While being part of Strategic
Statement 7, the ERA Academy activities, by their nature, serve all strategic statements of
the Agency.

Authority tasks

The Agency will also continue to deliver on its role as sole body responsible for issuing
multi-Member-State authorisations, certifications, and approvals. The Agency will contin-
ue performing its tasks in full partnership with the NSAs. In addition, the links between
authorisation, certifications, and approvals by the Agency and the supervision by the NSAs
will be strengthened. The Agency will also continue to drive further the harmonisation
towards the Single European Railway Area, ensuring the path towards technical and oper-
ational interoperability. The advancement of the System Pillar and the Agency's inputs in
the matter will further support harmonisation.

The lessons learnt through the issuing of VAs, ERTMS trackside approvals and from the
monitoring of NoBos will be used to capture continuous improvement opportunities for
the technical specifications and to the authorization procedures. The experience in issuing

22 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 25 ---
safety certificates will be used to better steer the safety related policy making, so railway
safety will never be misused again as a barrier. More specifically, the work on NoBo moni-
toring will be reinforced in 2025, with additional resources dedicated to this activity, in line
with the direction given in the Strengthening Plan.

Authority tasks however will face the highest pressure it has ever faced, with a surge of appli-
cations for VAs with ERTMS retrofitting components, as well as linked to DAC. Given the scarce
resources in the Agency which have these skills and the competing need in the ERTMS stream
of work, the Agency faces high risks of underachievement in the latter. More information can be
found under C5 (negative priorities).

TSIs & National Technical Rules

The Agency also intends to improve interoperability with, among others:
® TSI development according to the new European Commission requests.
™ The ERA Change Control Management

™ The assessment of notified National Technical Rules (and the drafting of TO in case
of a negative assessment)

® The monitoring of the development of the Ens complementing the TSIs

® And the overall support to the European Commission, to the Notified Bodies, and
to the Member States, as per the Agency's regulation and other relevant legal text.

The stability of the TSls, together with a successful cleaning up of the remaining national
rules are the foundation of seamless operations across Europe and for an increasing-
ly effective authority function, reinforcing the added value of a European mindset in the
EU railway system.

On the 21% of August 2024, The Agency has received from the Commission the EC Request
for recommendations on the multi-annual TS! Revision framework. This request will be the
backbone for the Agency work on the revision of the TSIs with 3 important recommenda-
tion milestones: end of 2026, end of 2028 and after 2030. It follows careful consideration
of the Commission's priorities, the Agency, the stakeholders as well as the EU-Rail Joint
Undertaking and considers 3 main categories:

® The items in the "Completing SERA” category focus on addressing barriers to inter-
operability, enhancing safety and increasing efficiency, both in terms of technical
and operational provisions. Another key objective is to achieve deeper harmoni-
sation of technical systems, engineering rules and operational rules. This is vital to
ensure these do not create hidden divergences between national systems, and
also to ensure automation of rail processes can target a single system rather than
many variants - thus supporting the vision of truly harmonized rail products for
the SERA. Additionally, actions are being introduced to improve the accessibility
of both railway infrastructure and vehicles for passengers, as well as to support
workplace health and safety of railway workers and to reduce the environmental
impact such as noise.

® The majority of “Innovation uptake and future-proof rail" category topics are con-
nected to the foreseen outputs of the EU-RAIL JU or contribute to the digitaliza-
tion/automation of the railway system to increase its efficiency and improve its at-
tractiveness for customers. Special attention is to be paid to the recommendations
to migration and implementation aspects regarding these innovative solutions.

® The “Optimised regulation” category aims to improve the coherence, legal reada-
bility, certainty, and applicability of the TSls, as well as to improve and wherever
possible, simplify the testing, assessment, certification and authorisation processes.

In addition to the listed items in this category, further emphasis should be put on the
scope and the structure of TSls to contribute to the streamlining of the technical frame-
work, without impeding the implementation deadlines of already existing legal provisions.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 23

--- Page 26 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

In 2025, the Agency will continue to work on the cleaning-up of national technical and
safety rules, as well as those on fixed installation and ERTMS. This cleaning-up is an impor-
tant step towards delivering a truly harmonised EU rail system. The Agency will continue
to focus on the removal of redundant national rules (operational and technical), the har-
monisation of the remaining rules, and the development of AMOCs.

National Safety Rules & TSI OPE

The Agency will also continue its efforts to harmonise operational rules and practices, with
the objective of reducing operational barriers for the SERA and improving the overall per-
formance of the railway system, taking into account the interfaces with other EU legis-
lation including ongoing/future developments. The Agency will therefore in the medi-
um-term work on the following items:

1. TSI OPE revision & CRs management.

2. Continuous improvement of TSI OPE Application Guide and of current AMOCS.

3. Drafting of new AMOCs, when and where applicable.

4. NSRs cleaning-up process 1.0 (transition to SRD) and 2.0 (TSI OPE 2023 requirements)
5. NSRs review process and its assessment framework

6. Support the Commission in managing Train Driver Directive related tasks

7. Ensure the coherence between the RID and the TSls, taking into account the tech-
nological evolution.

8. To ensure the coherence between other EU legislation and the TS! OPE

Concerning the coordination of transport of dangerous goods by rail, the Agency will con-
tinue to deliver support and assistance to the EC, recognising of course the supporting
essence of the Agency's role in the matter.

Digitalisation & interoperable data

The Agency acknowledges the strategic importance of data and digitalisation in support-
ing a sustainable development of railways in Europe as a competitive mode of transport
and taking a data centric approach, has the ambition to become a reference for facilitating
the multi-modal data exchange and queries, based on a common Ontology for railways.
The Agency has ambitious aims to exploit the potential of digitalization for its operational
data systems, including a full transformation of the existing registers to support future Al
and automation capabilities. The Interoperable Data Roadmap will boost the performance
level of internal processes and will allow to have modern systems such as OSS, Registers,
etc. fully functioning according to schedule and completely interoperable with commer-
cial software solutions currently adopted by the railway industry to support the operators
in their daily business. It will also continue to carefully follow the challenges and mitigat-
ing measures associated to both IT security and cybersecurity.

In 2025 the Agency will continue its work on a CCM process that will control the addition
of new National Specific Parameters (NSPs) in relation to the Telematics TSls. In parallel we
will seek to establish the complete list of current NSPs, use best efforts to start the clean-
up/Validation of current NSPs and propose a timeline for cleaning the list that matches the
resourcing and priorities of the Agency work progamme.

For the period 2025-2027, the Agency will still be a top player in ensuring the right frame-
work for the data and information exchange related to assets and services (includ-
ing ticketing data), based on linked data, universal data identifiers and more and better
data exchanged between operators and customers. This will ensure a seamless exchange
of data with other modes of transport, thus allowing the customers to benefit from a com-
prehensive logistics chain or the mobility-as-a-service, respectively.

While specifications for infrastructure description related data used in the register of in-
frastructure (RINF), respectively for information exchange in telematics applications, were

24 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 27 ---
developed for different purposes, they now appear to be inconsistent between one an-
other in the context of their integration into the European Mobility Data Space (EMDS) for
which the ERA Vocabulary has been set as building block for rail. Corresponding alignment
and linking of rail data for infrastructure description constitutes both an internal and ex-
ternal challenge for the Agency that will be addressed through the work of the Agency
on the review of the governance of location coding in the context of the review of TSIs
on telematics applications and development of the RINF Regulation and associated RINF
application

Moreover, the Agency is a publisher in the open data portal, with 13 datasets published.
Currently, the Agency is committed to adopting an approach based on linked data, main-
streaming of this approach to other registers and databases in 2025. Once fully imple-
mented, this stream of work will be covered under strategic statement 2 and 3.

In addition, the Telematics TSI will provide the data communication requirements for the
transparent and efficient traffic management and train operations system of the future in-
cluding also (i) first and last mile logistic segments involving intermodal actors (operators,
terminals) and (ii) linkage to other modes of transport (road, waterborne). This will also
contain the enhanced simple and smart tracking of trains, wagons and consignments.
The same TSI will also include additional requirements for the setting up of LaaS starting
from consignment order (intermodal compliant), train operation preparation and ending
in well-predicted / efficient delivery of trains, wagons and consignments to the business
partners.

Of course, seamless operations also mean exchanging data, a process on which the Agen-
cy will continue to contribute by facilitating the data exchange for, among various pur-
poses, authorization, registration, and route compatibility checks, based on the linked data
approach. The Agency acknowledges the clear, shared ambition to drive the development
of the digital agenda and in 2025 will implement in full the requirements. The Agency is
actively piloting the use of linked data technology to deliver an ISS tool to support the
implementation of the CSM ASLP regulation. This required an extension of the ERA On-
tology which was already published as a draft in 2024. Whilst the funding to develop the
application layer has not yet been secured the Agency is optimistic that the pilot work will
offer an opportunity to use existing national systems as the User Interface.

ERTMS

Seven priorities have been identified:

a) Future Railway Mobile Communication System (FRMCS): with the upcoming ob-
solescence of GSM-R, the Agency is currently working on this area, which would
modernise the system from a 2G-based system to a 5G one. By 2027, FRMCS specifi-
cations will be prepared by the EECT RMR.

b) ETCS and ATO specifications: the Agency would aim at maintaining and improving
the overall ERTMS specifications by drafting and reviewing the ETCS and ATO speci-
fications within the EECT ETCS. The priorities of new functionalities within this work-
stream are defined within the EC-request for recommendations on the multi-annual
TSI Revision framework.

c) Cybersecurity: the Agency would work towards integrating at least the minimum
technical requirements in CCS TSI, when appropriate.

d) Operational interoperability: the Agency will support this stream of work, especially
through the update of its generic ETCS handbook, the development of operational
rules for ETCS SV3.0 functionality within the ERTMS OH group.

e) ERTMS engineering: the Agency intends to steer the harmonisation of engineering
rules by reviewing and publishing harmonised engineering rules.

f) ESC/RSC: develop and support activities to reduce the number of ESC/RSC-checks.

g) CCSTSI: the Agency plans on working on various aspects of CCSTSI, through regular
dissemination, such as the ERTMS Conference, ad hoc support to CINEA, through

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 25

--- Page 28 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

the continued support provided to the European Commission on the matter. The
CCSTSI shall be revised according to the scope and timeline as defined in the EC-re-
quest.

h) Support to the PAD-unit by delivering opinions by the ERTMS system authority on
the CCS TSI compliance of the ETCS On-Board products. These opinions reduce the
time and cost for certification and authorisation of the ETCS-part within the different
vehicle types.

The Agency will also between 2025 and 2027 work on a contribution agreement to en-
hance capacity building on safety and interoperability in Greece. Through this stream of
work, the Agency will:

— Provide recommendations for the governance and allocation of stakeholder’s roles and
responsibilities of the Greek railway sector, according to the EU legal framework for rail-
way safety and interoperability;

— Enhance the capacities of key stakeholders to ensure safety and implementation of EU
law;

— Provide support together with some NSAs for implementing the recommendations
from the assessment report and recommendation for ERTMS in Greece (e.g. the design-
ing of a roadmap for the implementation of ERTMS).

ERTMS however will face an incredibly high pressure due to a surge of applications for VAs with
ERTMS retrofitting components. Given the scarce resources in the Agency which have these skills
and the competing need in the ERTMS stream of work, the Agency faces high risks of undera-
chievement in the latter. More information can be found under C5 (negative priorities).

System Pillar

The programme ‘Management of Innovation and long-term evolution of the Agency’ in-
troduced in 2021, will continue to steer the research & innovation policy of the Agency
and its future development. It will also be in charge of coordinating the Agency's input to
the work on the System Pillar. This programme intends to bring a clearer definition of the
EU target rail system through:

™@ An EUrail architecture.

™@ An alignment between the development of future legislation (TSls, Standards) &
the activities of the Europe's Rail JU.

A progressive deployment of the solutions to reach the target system.

Agency to identify specific areas for attention and communicate to JU.

Finally, the Agency will continue to ensure technical assistance to the Commission, as
guardian of interoperability and safety, and as system authority for ERTMS & telematics.
This will boost harmonisation of operations, subsystems, and components, leaving the
practical aspects to the industry, assuming an appropriate level of oversight. In parallel,
the Agency will continue to identify related research needs and assess mature innovation
products, with a clear potential for market uptake, in order to reflect them into the tech-
nical specifications.

In this context, the Agency will focus on exploring emerging needs such as:

®™ Better coordination of traffic management EU-wide, including, but not limited to,
planning, capacity management, and emergency responses.

™ Increased and improved offer for passengers and freight in the railway sector

® Improved operations through the adoption of automatic translation systems and
training for operators in their native language. This would enhance the railway sys-
tems resilience to interoperability issues and increase cross-border traffic.

The objective is to make the railway system more resilient to interoperability issues and
increase the cross-border traffic.

26 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 29 ---
+ | Outcomeindicatos |

Harmonisation and reduction of Member-State specific National rules (both national
safety rules and national technical rules) via a Single Rules Database.

Number of international passenger/freight trains at selected border stations
(interoperability reports)

Planned vs real transfer times at cross border points

ERTMS trackside deployment in the EU

Vehicles equipped with ERTMs in the EU

VAs for multi-member states issued by the Agency

SSC for multi-mmember states issued by the Agency

Data is FAIR, measured on a scale (numbers in KG)

ONAN RW N

Resource envelope

FTEs                                   87.58                       88.36                       84.14
Budget (?)                               5,831,980                     €5,095,610                    €5,252,803

日 This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on ERTMS TA and Vehicle authorisations.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 27,

--- Page 30 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

The Agency is playing a pivotal role in supporting the transformation of the European
transport system towards decarbonised, interoperable, and safe transport modes based
on multi-modal integration (Maas).

B.2. Strategic statement 2 & 3 -

Rail will k
The Agency has identified for this Strategic Statement two intermediate outcomes, which
will support the achievement of the overarching statement. There are the following ones:

1. TAP is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, ticket vendors), it is actu-
ally used as the main channel of information exchange and the ticketing is integrat-
ed in the multimodal environment with other transport modes

2. TAF is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, WKs, CTOs) and it is actu-
ally used as the main channel of information exchange

Of course, TAF and TAP TSI will also be in scope for some intermediate outcomes already
identified under strategic statement 1. Additional intermediate outcomes will be identi-
fied in the future to further implement the intervention logic within the Agency.

While no programme has been attributed to strategic statement 2 & 3, three important
ones will be crucial contributors:

™@ Railway operations harmonisation (ERA1172, strategic statement 1): this pro-
gramme will include the coordination of the transport of dangerous goods by rail.

™ Interoperable data (ERA1226, strategic statement 1): this programme will cover,
among others, the TAF/TAP TSls, which are particularly relevant in a multi-modal
context as they enable that integration in terms of ticketing and timetables which
has been preventing the effective development of rail as the backbone of a mul-
ti-modal and international transport.

™ Economic analysis and research (ERA1188, strategic statement 6): it will include the
delivery of support and assistance to the EC On rail and sustainability, with annua
topical reports.

| # |                           Outcome indicators

The level of implementation of TAF and TAP TSI as monitored through the annual
"Safety and Interoperability Progress Report”

Evolution in share of rail (both passenger and freight) in the EU's transport market
compared to air, road or maritime transport

GHG emission from rail compared with other transport modes (shares %)
4 | Noise-TSl-compliant freight wagons

w

Resource envelope (*)

Budget                                 €0                          €0                          €0

©) Starting 2025 the Agency will implement a new portfolio structure based on 22 programmes instead of 69 projects
and services in order to streamline the portfolio administration and to have a more meaningful and efficient
deployment of budget and FTEs, in line with the actual areas of work. In the specific case of statements 2&3 the
projects and services listed before under this statement will become part of bigger programmes listed under strate-
gic statement 1 and 6. These programmes will however continue to contribute to the strategic statements 283

28 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 31 ---
Delivering SSC                     CSM ASLP

Monitoring NSA/NoBo & NIB
peer review                          Sustainable Safety Management

In the field of Railway Safety, the Agency has identified 3 categories of intermediate out-
comes that it can actively influence through its portfolio of safety related programmes
and that are essential pre-conditions to achieve the strategic statement 4. The identified
intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. All railway operators - IM, RU, ECM - understand and accept their responsibility and
actively implement an SMS to control the risks of operational activities;

2. An increased performance of and trust in the different safety related control levels in
the system - ERA, MS, NSA, ASBO, ECM CB, accreditation, recognition, NIB;

3. Safety and safety management/performance related data is shared in an open and
transparent way;

Up until now the Agency has invested most of its efforts in building knowledge and reg-
ulating, while not sufficiently supporting the railway sector in the actual implementation
of the legislative framework. The following years of the Agency's work programme will
focus more on the actual implementation by supporting the sector through knowledge
sharing, by better understanding the issues the sector is facing when implementing the
legislative framework, by reinforcing the expected outcome where possible and enforcing
it where necessary. Within this framework of intermediate outcomes and interventions for
statement 4 the Agency will continue to focus on:

. Supporting Member States in developing, adopting and repealing national legis-
lation and strengthening NSAs and NIBs capacity, in line with principles and legal
acts promoted by the EU. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/ reinforcing)

2. Enhancing railway safety through positive safety culture and integration of
human and organisational factors and on the harmonisation of the safety
approach, partly through SSC applications. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/
reinforcing)

w

. Monitoring of NSAs and the follow-up of issues emerged during the 1* and the
2” cycle of audits (monitoring / reinforcing).

4. Learning lessons through the issuing of SSCs, the monitoring of NSAs, the review
of NIB accident investigation reports and the information exchanged during
NSA and NIB meetings and meetings organised with the AsBos, this will be used to
continuously improve the common safety methods, as well as the safety certifica-
tion procedures (knowledge building/ sharing knowledge / monitoring)

wn

. Strengthening the culture of risk management to identify risks and mitigating
measures but also opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations preserving
the safety level. This shall cover well-known operational scenarios, including inter-
faces with other transport modes, and the adoption of emerging technology and

B.3. Strategic statement 4 -

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 29

--- Page 32 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

related relevant risks (e.g. cyber security, etc.). (knowledge building/ sharing know上-
edge)

More specifically, this strategic statement will be fed by the activities of various pro-
grammes. Concerning the Common Safety Methods on Assessment of Safety Level
and Safety Performance (CSM ASLP) programme, it will work towards the start of the
implementation of CSM through the Information Sharing System, with the caveat of the
legal adoption and sufficient budget allocation. Should these criteria be met, a full imple-
mentation of the ISS should be possible in the future. Furthermore, this programme will
also implement JNS procedures and ensure its functioning.

When it comes to the programme on Sustainable Safety Management, the Agency
will continue its stakeholder engagement through active involvement of experts, such
as Entities in Charge of Maintenance (ECM), HOF professionals, Assessment Bodies (AsBo),
Safety/risk experts in the field of Transport of Dangerous Goods (TDG), SMS experts and
potentially others, in order to facilitate ongoing discussions and exchanges of best prac-
tices. It will continue the preparatory work (CSM Review vision document) to support the
European Commission and help facilitate the proposal for a mandate to be put in place to
allow for an Agency Recommendation for the review of the current set of CSMs and the
development of a new text on competence management. The Agency will also organise
and/or contribute to stakeholder fora and therefore discuss emerging challenges and find
collaborative solutions, as in the case of the guide under CSM REA for holistic cross wind
risk assessment and related risk control measures. In addition, the programme will look at
developing specific online environments, supporting communication and collaboration,
together with the preparation of tools, guidance material, and educational resources on
key safety areas, such as HOF, risk management, (systemic) safety enhancement, and safety
management principles.

Regarding monitoring, the third cycle of NSA monitoring will start in 2025, with a poten-
tial focus on prioritisation and implementation of actions by NSAs. The details and scope
of the third cycle will be discussed and adopted in November 2024 by the Management
Board. In terms of NoBo monitoring, the Agency aims to complete the monitoring of
all NoBos by 2026. Concerning the peer-review of the NIBs, the Agency will finalise the
current cycle until the end of 2025 and will contribute to the definition of the 2™ cycle of
the Peer review.

As mentioned above, the Agency will also continue to disseminate on railway safety leg-
islation. Through its STARS programme and in collaboration with the ERA Academy, the
Agency will establish a portfolio of training, qualifications, and other appropriate activities
adapted to the needs identified in the sector. It will also develop and implement process-
es for qualifying trainers, training, and support activities. The programme will also design
content for safety events in line with the stakeholder needs and interest to contribute to
develop safety culture across Europe. Finally, the programme will provide stakeholders
with the appropriate tools to foster safety culture by means of identification of good prac-
tices.

Improving the structure, quality, and availability of safety relevant data while making
sure it is shared in an open and transparent way among all railway actors. (knowledge
building/ monitoring).

30 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 33 ---
Ez                                          Outcome indicator

iV)

1      Number of SSCs issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates
issued
2 | Number of negative decisions of SSCs
3      Percentage of NSAs audited with at least 1 deficiency (focused on deficiencies still
open from the 1st cycle). Note: this is a rolling indicator
NSA Monitoring: number of deficiencies still open (follow-up of the 1st and 2"4
4 | cycle) vs number of deficiencies of the 1* and 2™ cycle (rolling indicator) Note: this is
a rolling indicator
5 | Number of peer reviewed NIB's
6     Number of volunteering NIBs to participate in the NIB peer review/ total number of
NIB's (on a yearly basis)
Resource envelope
ee a
FTEs     /        B75       36.34         35.35
Budget ()                  €1,528,116            € 1,519,627            ~€ 1,538,166

This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on SSC.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 31

--- Page 34 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

The Agency is currently reviewing the strategic statement 5, especially as no programme

Strategic statement 5 -               has been identified yet for the next three years. It will nonetheless continue to support the
Union's interest upon request of the Commission and in line with the Agency's mandate
entand a                     and taking into consideration the crisis communication stream of work.

Ea                 come indicators
1  | Under development

Resource envelope

2025                 2026
FTEs                                                     0                                        0                                        0
Budget

€0          €0

32 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 35 ---
The Agency will endeavour to make sure that the rules and system specifications are
smart, proportionate and contribute to the competitiveness of the industry. It will also
make sure that the SSC, VA, and ERTMS TA processes are cost and time efficient, fostering
the entrance of new operators in the market.

As presented in previous strategic statements, the Agency will use its analytical expertise
within its remit in order to deliver objective and credible evidence for decision-making
as well as identify and monitor rail research activities to support technical progress of the
Single European Railway Area. The programme on Economic Analysis and Research
will focus during 2025-2027 on the following elements:

® Improved data availability and quality and facilitated access for stakeholders/in-
dustry;

™ Enhanced understanding of the As-ls situation through an extended scope of
monitoring of and building knowledge on the railway system, as well as targeted
studies of strategic importance;

™ Inefficiencies and bottlenecks in the European railway system are understood,
mapped, and measured;

™ Strengthened IA practice through creation and maintenance of standardised in-
puts for economic analysis and greater quantification in IAs;

™ Ex-post evaluations are taken into account and result in better regulation and pol-
icies;

™ JU & sector are involved in delivering innovative solutions, ERA serving as the
champion of / bridge for safety & interoperability aspects.

The Agency aims at evaluating the economic impact of the vehicle authorisation
and issuing of single safety certificate processes on the railway sector, the impact of
the TSIs as a package, of market opening and competition and of modular interchange-
ability in the ERTMS system specifications. The Agency will assess interoperability and
safety improvements from a cost-effectiveness perspective, also considering effi-
ciency and effectiveness of the Agency's internal processes. The results of the assess-
ments will be used to propose recommendations for improving the legal texts, as well as
any non-regulatory instruments, in the spirit of the Better Regulation principles.

In addition, the Management Board, NSA and NRB networks will be regularly informed
about the return of experience, lessons learnt and priorities for the IA practice.

#                                              Outcome indicators
1__| Evolution in rail traffic in absolute terms
2__| Proportion of rail vs road and air transport, for passenger and freight rail in the EU
3 | Number of pax-km per passenger train-km
4 | Number of tonne-km per freight train-km
5 __| Average ERTMS costs (trackside and on-board)
6 __| Average time for placing vehicles on the market
Resource envelope
[225 | 22 | 2027 |
FTEs                                    5.39                         541                          541
Budget                               € 69,300                    € 69,300                    €71,910

B.5. Strategic statement 6 -

Rail

economi

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 33

--- Page 36 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Strategic Statement 7 -

Skateholder Relations, Academy & Communications               International Relations

One of the objectives of the Agency is to become a global reference in the railway domain
for technical matters and build its reputation of a solid, resilient, and trustworthy organ-
ization. To achieve that, the Agency will work on multiple fronts. It will support the EC in
designing, implementing, and monitoring the EU transport foreign policy. The Agency will
also contribute to international standardization by strengthening its cooperation with
European and international standardization organizations. The Agency will also
prepare dissemination contents and organise training sessions and other means of shar-
ing the precious knowledge it has gathered. Furthermore, the Agency will focus on the
EC priorities in terms of technical and geographical areas and will also provide the
requested analyses and support.

Focussing on training and dissemination, in 2025-2027, the Agency will continue to
strengthen its dissemination capabilities and tools, reflecting there the results of the MB
workshop on SPD 2025-2027. In addition, the Agency will propose a range of webinars
on a variety of topics under the expertise of the Agency and will continue to organise EU-
wide railway events. The Stakeholder Relations, Academy & Communication programme
will support these goals, and will focus on the following priorities for the 2025-2027 period:

Training

— Deliver training and other similar activities concerning the application and expla-
nation of railway safety and interoperability legislation and related products of the
Agency such as registers, implementation guides and recommendations;

— Facilitate access to education all over Europe and promote the development of
more dedicated railway related training both by ERA and externally;

— Develop a structured railway related education webpage and promote and facilitate
ERA- and external educational activities;

— Facilitate the e-learning platform, which would cover additional topics on safety and
interoperability by 2028;

— Facilitate the development and implementation of processes for providing an ERA
evaluation of external trainers and trainings.

Events

— Deliver the ERA events, as proposed in the relevant Communication and Dissemi-
nation plan;

Media
— Increase followers on X, LinkedIn, and YouTube over time to reach a wider audience;

— Increase the cover of ERA activities in news media.

Reputation management

— Improve the Agency corporate image through a large use of the publication
office;

— Enhance preparedness and establish channels to respond to potential crises
efficiently.

34 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 37 ---
Internal Communication

— Enhanced awareness of ERA activities within the Agency, including but not limited
to General Assemblies, internal news, Management decisions communication;

Rail Stakeholder engagement

— Organise the network meetings for NSAs, NIBs, and NRBs with the aim to support
exchanges amongst the involved parties, ERA, and the EC;

— Foster in these groups the exchange of information relating to railway safety and
interoperability;

— Promote good practices in relevant fora;

— Maintain the cooperation with other EU Transport Agencies with the aim of sharing
of knowledge and adopting similar approaches for similar issues.

Furthermore, the Agency will also support the European Commission on its internation-
al portfolio. In December 2023, the Agency and the European Commission's Directorate
General DG NEAR signed a three-year contract “EU support on transposition and imple-
mentation of the EU railway acquis by the European Union Agency for Railways”. This
contract will be implemented from 2024 to 2026 (included). The contract will allow the
Agency to continue its efforts supporting the beneficiaries of the Western Balkans and Tur-
kiye under the European Union's instrument for pre-accession assistance (IPA). The Work
Program comprises the cooperation with the Transport Community, based in Belgrade.
Beneficiaries are the EU candidate and potential candidate countries Albania, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Kosovo (This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in
line with UNSCR 1244 and the ICJ opinion on the Kosovo declaration of independence),
Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Turkiye.

The Agency will also continue international collaboration upon request of the Commis-
sion and in line with the EU priorities and the Agency's mandate, in the Union's neighbour-
hood policy areas and beyond. It will through its International Relations programme focus
on the following actions for 2025-2027, in line with the Agency's remit:

— Develop an update of Annex XII of SPD “Strategy for cooperation with third coun-
tries and/or international organisations’, in line with the Agency's Regulation Article
44(3)

— Organise workshops and deliver support on the implementation of the EU railway
legislation;

— Communicate and disseminate to relevant stakeholders on the EU framework of
railway law and the development of standards and guidance;

— Engage in training and other appropriate activities concerning the application and
explanation of railway safety and interoperability legislation and related products of
the Agency such as registers, implementation guides and recommendations;

— Organise meetings of the Platform of Rail Regulatory Bodies;

— Coordination with OTIF, Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community, Ukraini-
an ministry in charge of railways and other partners under the signed Administrative
Arrangements, as well as other bilateral and multilateral contacts in support of EU
policies and priorities;

— Facilitate ad-hoc participation as observer in the NIB- and NSA Networks, if agreed
by these Networks, with the aim to foster the exchange of information on railway
safety and interoperability, and the promotion of best practices.

Finally, in addition to the pledges above, the Agency will continue its international collab-
oration on an ad-hoc basis, upon request of the Commission and in line with the Agency's
mandate in the Union's neighbouring policy areas.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 35

--- Page 38 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

#                                              Outcome indicator
1      Number of participants in ERA training sessions and other dissemination events
2 _| Number of participants in the Platform of Rail Regulatory Bodies
3 | Number of meetings / events organised or supported by ERA
Adoption of updated Annex XII of SPD “Strategy for cooperation with third countries
4     and/or international organisations’, reflecting EU Strategic Agenda and EC priorities

2024-2029, enlargement process of EU, assistance to Ukraine, activities of the Global
Gateway, relevant regional and sectoral EU strategies

Resource envelope

FTEs                        16.31                16.28                16.28
Budget                             € 918,897                 € 1,099,211                € 1,166,301

36 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 39 ---
Legal support, accounting
Corporate governance                              & procurement

In order to achieve the strategic statement 8, the Agency has identified five intermediate
outcomes that it will actively work towards in the following years through the related
portfolio of programmes:

1. Staff understand the mission and vision of the Agency, internalise it and have the
flexibility, the ownership/ autonomy with their activities, and a clear mutual under-
standing of their roles and responsibilities to actively contribute to the strategic di-
rection of the Agency

2. The Agency has a sound and agile governance framework, whose processes and
administration favour clarity, efficiency and decision making at the right level.

3. The SPD process steers the Agency’ strategy and multi-annual work programme de-
velopment in an integrated, evidence-based, and coordinated manner as well as
the monitoring of its effectiveness. This can be achieved through interfacing with
the internal stakeholders owning the strategies and the external stakeholders (EC,
EB strategic calendar, etc).

4. SPD is the single reference (for internal and external stakeholders) for all critical tac-
tical information providing the overarching view on the implementation of the pro-
grammes.

5. The Agency is a learning, ethical, legally complying organisation where the deci-
sion-making, the strong financial control, the monitoring and reporting processes
give the assurance of best value for money.

The other intermediate outcomes will be achieved also through the optimization of the
ERA planning, monitoring and reporting capabilities, to enhance the Agency's pro-
gramme management framework together with the Single Programming Document and
the Consolidated Annual Activity Report. This will lead to an allocation of resources based
on impact and intended outcome, fostering the added value created for the railway sector
and an overall better performance of the Agency. An Action Plan for the Strengthening
Plan 2023-2027 is put in place, in close link to the SPD implementation and monitoring.
With the Agency's organisational culture change initiative ‘Better together at ERA’ the
Agency will continue to invest resources and time to boost and refine the work environ-
ment and cooperation between staff members.

The Agency will also continue to ensure the legal compliance of its activities, outputs,
and deliverables with the applicable legal framework. It will also guarantee the compli-
ance of all procurement processes, through transparent processes, regular monitoring,
and dissemination of knowledge across the Agency.

Furthermore, the important work on Women in transport, which should lead to the
strengthening of women's employment and equal opportunities for women and men in
the transport sector will be pursued. Indeed, many studies have shown that gender parity
in the workforce increases the productivity and the cohesion of staff, as well as innovation.

Outcome indicators
Budget discipline (% of deviation of strategic statement spending compared with

the original allocated envelope)

Resource envelope

2025                     2026
FTEs                               23.09                     22.92                     22.12
Budget                         € 165,000                € 165,000                € 165,000

B.7. Strategic statement 8 -

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 37

--- Page 40 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Strategic statement 9 -
Facility
Human Resources             management

Clause 4 of the ERA Policy states that “People are our most valuable resource’. Coherently,
the Agency will implement the new HR strategy 2023-2027, offering clear and transparent
career paths to staff members, allocate enough resources to make sure that good perfor-
mance and success stories are adequately rewarded, and that skills and competencies are
appropriate for the Agency mission and kept up to date. Internal roles are not only defined
but also accompanied by a proper competency management system and communicated
externally so that interfaces are clear to the stakeholders. The Agency also acknowledges
the added value of diversity by implementing solutions to improve the gender balance in
management and operational roles and to widen the number of nationalities employed.
The Agency will continue further digitalising the HR processes, using to the best extent
possible European Commission tools, such as SYSPER and MIPS.

Regarding the IT systems and infrastructure, the Agency aims at moving from digital skills
of individuals to a more global digital culture. Indeed, while technology supports the
achievement of various ERA objectives, the IT programmes sees technology as an enabler
to achieve a “digital as default” value. Of course, this can only be achieved with the support
of a strong IT security management, information security, and cybersecurity rules to pro-
tect the Agency and its digital assets against cyberthreats.

In order to achieve these goals, the IT programme will continuously optimise its processes,
streamline, and automate its workflows to the largest extent possible, while using and pro-
posing digital technologies that have the potential to increase productivity and efficiency
throughout the Agency. An IT strategy will support these objectives and be followed as
part of the ERA Strategic Calendar.

As per the Facility Management Programme, it will continue to ensure that the premises
currently hosting the headquarters are supporting the business needs, considering the
aging of the building, as well as the technical installations. It will therefore continue to
manage and provide specific maintenance through a cycle agreed with the landlord, Va-
lenciennes Métropole. It will also pursue and implement cost-efficient measures to man-
age the building, aiming at reducing the environmental impact of the Agency, including
but not limited to improving recycling practices, reducing energy and water consump-
tion, and monitoring the quality of services provided by FWC contracts suppliers.

Finally, the Agency has set up a Task Force to prepare its new building in Valenciennes. The
deliverables of this work will be reported against in the programme ERA1159.

Outcome indicators

Staff satisfaction (evaluated through the Staff Engagement Survey or own survey
with the same scope and questions) (°)

Highly trained staff (°) (checked through dimensions training performance such as
the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS Project, training budget, number
of PIT requests)

HR strategy action plan progress.

Overtime (% worked above the 40 hours/week on a monthly basis, over 110%)
Cloud migration - infrastructure migrated to the cloud

ICT strategy action plan progress

N

Au Rw

(© Resource permitting
(checked through dimensions training performance such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS
Project, training budget, number of PIT requests

38 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027,

--- Page 41 ---
Resource envelope

FTEs                                                 26.43                                 26.43                                 2641
Budget (7)                           € 3,722,000                  € 4,272,000                  € 3,672,000
In the table below, the Agency programmes are mapped against their main strategic
statements and the statements to which they contribute.
ERA1221 | Authority tasks support                                        _| Main                                              Contributing ，
ERA3300 | Del ivering VA                                                        Main
ERA3400 | Delivering TA                    Main
ERA1218 | Manage ERTMS long term evolution         Main
ERA1175   Rolling stock and fixed installations        Main                                    Contributing
harmonisation
ERA1172 | Railway operations harmonisation                       Main                                              Contributing
FRA1226 _| Interoperable data                                      Main               Contributing                                                                      Contributing
ERA1240 | System Pillar                                             Main
ERA3200 | Delivering SSC                                                                                      Main
ERA1219 | CSM-ASLP                                                                                          Main
ERA1167 _| Sustainable safety management                                                               Main
ERA1249 | STARS                                                                                                Main
ERA1253 _| Capacity building on Safety & Interoperability                                          Main
ERA1224 | Monitoring NSA/NoBo & NIB peer review         Contributing                         Main
ERA1188 | Economic analysis and research                      Contributing | Contributing                           Main
ERAII45       Stakeholder Relations, Academy &                                                                                                                                 Main                   Crit
Communication
ERA1147 | International Relations                                                                                                  Main
ERA1156 | Corporate governance                                                                                                                          Contributing                                  Main
ERA1159 | Legal support, accounting & procurement         Contributing                                                                                           Main               Contributing
ERA1201 | ICT                                                                                                                                                                                         Main
en      Facility Management & New building                                                                                                                                              Main
ERA1203 | Human Resources                                                                                                                                                                      Main

() This includes T2,74.2, and relevant sections of 13, 74.3

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 39

--- Page 42 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

These programmes are represented hereunder according to the FTE allocation for the year 2025.

Delivering VA

Authority Tasks Support

Interoperable data

Rolling stock and fixed
installations
harmonisation

System
Pillar

Manage ERTMS
long term
evolution

出 Stst1    Stst4 [7 Stst6 ME Stst7 MM Stst8

40 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

Stakeholder Relations,
Academy & Communication

Stst9

Corporate governance

Legal support, accounting
& procurement

Economic
International analysis and:
Relations          research


--- Page 43 ---
C. Human and financial resources — outlook for the years
2025-2027

C.1. Overview of the past and current situation
C.1.1. Staff population overview 2023-2025

Table 1 - Human resources 2023-2025 (8)

| 023 | az2o4 |
Authorised           Staff
under the EU | population at | Authorised      Requested
Budget        31/12/2023
Temporary Agents (TA)                                                      166 (°)
Contract Agents (CA)                                                           36 (1°)

Human resources

Seconded National
Experts (SNE)

Total staff

External staff financed
from agreements

Structural service
providers

4(")

Complete tables are provided in Annex lV: Human Resources 2025-2027 — quantitative &
Annex IV: Human Resources 2025-2027 - quantitative.

C.1.2. Revenues 2023-2025

Table 2 - Revenues 2023-2025

Financial resources - Revenues                                                      2025
(EUR)                                                 Authorised        Requested
1. Fees and charges             10,312,858         11,913,156         14,052,983
2. EU contribution                27,418,274         28,645,912         29,733,355
3. Third countries
contribution (= EFTA)

4.+5.+6.+7. Other
general revenues

Revenues                                               801,315           1,022,594             812,104

38,532,447        41,581,662        44,598,442

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill : Financial resources.

i]

Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcounts), except for “External staff financed from agreements" where FTE
is used to ensure compliance with Table 17 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribu-
tion or service-level agreements in Annex IV.

© Of which 28 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

(") Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar grant, which should be finalised by Q4 2024.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 41

--- Page 44 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

C.1.3. Expenditures 2023-2025

Table 3 - Expenditure 2023-2025

Financial resources - Expenditure                                   2024                2025
(EUR)                                                 Authorised       Requested

Title 1 - Staff expenditure       23,387,602        22,654,387        23,881,904

Title 2 - Infrastructure and

operating expenditure

Title 3 - Operational

expenditure

Total EU contribution

(Titles 1 + 2 + 3)

Total Fees and charges          10,312,858        11,913,156        14,052,983

38,532,447       41,581,662       44,598,442

Complete tables are provided in Annex |ll : Financial resources.

2,096,800             2,146,913             2,207,600

Expenditure

2,735,187       4,867,206       4,455,955

28,219,589          29,668,506          30,545,459

The Agency will need to constantly monitor the budget allocation for 2025. Several pre-
cautions have been taken into account, which generate pressure on the budget planning.

C.2. Outlook for the years 2025 - 2027

C.2.1. Growth of existing tasks

In 2025 following the endorsement of the Strengthening Plan and the allocation of 12
additional TAs to the Agency to implement it, the Agency will dedicate these resources to
the following priority domains, in line with the Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-2027:

a) Authority tasks

b) NSA monitoring

©) NoBo Monitoring

d) ERTMS and radio communication evolution

e) TSls

f) The cleaning of national rules (technical, operational and safety rules)
g) CSM ASLP

h) Digitalisation of the Agency's registers

42 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 45 ---
C.3. Resource programming for the years 2025 - 2027
C.3.1. Financial resources

Table 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2025-2027

(EUR)                           Requested         Planned           Planned
1. Fees and charges               14,052,983         14,225,918         14,441,368
2. EU contribution                 29,733,355         30,810,874         31,092,804
3. Third countries
contribution (= EFTA)

4.4+5.+6.+7. Other
general revenues

Total                                                          44,598,442        45,878,844        46,384,060
Title 1 - Staff expenditure        23,881,904         24,845,056         25,467,095
Title 2 - Infrastructure and

Revenues                                                 812,104            842,052            849,888

，             ，               2,207,600         2,477,600         2,157,600
operating expenditure
Expenditure | lite 3 Operational              4,455,955         4,330,270         4,317,997
expenditure
Total EU contribution
(Titles 1 +243)                30,545,459       31,652,926       31,942,692
Total Fees and charges          14,052,983        14,225,918        14,441,368
Total                                           44,598,442      45,878,844      46,384,060

Complete tables are provided in Annex |ll : Financial resources.
C.3.2. Human resources

Table 5 - Human resources - Outlook 2025-2027 (13)

2025                   2026                  2027
Requested      ERA estimates | ERA estimates
Temporary Agents (TA)                                                    162 (4)              160 (9
Contract Agents (CA)                                                         36                    36

Human resources

Seconded National Experts (SNE)                                   4                 4
Total staff

External staff financed from
agreements

Structural service providers                                                                       p.m.

p.m.

Complete tables are provided in Annex IV: Human Resources 2025-2027 — quantitative & Annex
IV: Human Resources 2025-2027 - quantitative.

C.4. Strategy for achieving efficiency gains

The Agency is committed to continuously improving its functioning, streamlining its pro-
cesses, optimising the engagement of its staff, and allowing for the reallocation of re-
sources to the most important priorities. In the course of 2021, the Agency worked quite
intensively on efficiency gains. This work progressed until the end of 2021 and led to the
drafting of the Strengthening Plan, finalised, and endorsed by the Management Board at
the beginning of 2022. The purpose of the Strengthening Plan is to make the strongest
possible case in order to strengthen the Agency with resources matching the level of
ambition necessary for achieving the important EC policy objectives for rail, in an effective

(°) Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcount), except for “External staff financed from agreements" where
FTE is used to ensure compliance with Table 10 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agree-
ments in Annex IV.

(") Asperin the SAP foreseen FTE evolution.

(9 bid
(9 There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar grant, which should be finalised by Q4 2024,
() Ibid

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 43

--- Page 46 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

and efficient manner, and benefit from high levels of ambition and efficiency within ERA’s
structure and methods.

With the document serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the
Agency received a proposed increase of 12 TAs in 2022. While the additional TA allocation
is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening Plan (12 TAs proposed out of the
22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed with the implemen-
tation of the Strengthening Plan.

Following the adoption of the aforementioned plan, the Agency prepared the Strength-
ening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-2027, which details the actions that will be carried out within
the next five years to strengthen the Agency's efficiency. The SAP 2023-2027 is organised
along the following components/objectives:

a) Drive an optimal resourcing of the following policy priority areas, matched by pro-
portional outputs and outcomes, including efficiency gains:

= NSA and NoBo monitoring;
= ERTMS and radio communication evolution;
= TSl related work;
= Clean-up of national rules;
= CSM ASLP;
a Digitalisation of the Agency's registers.
b) Maintain proper resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks,

O Ensure a reduction in the Agency's administrative FTE allocation while maintaining
regularity and legality. This will be possible thanks no but not limited to:

= Aworkload analysis;
= The Leaning of processes;

= A training programme to facilitate the transition and provide the required
technical skills to staff moving from administrative tasks to operational ones.

d) Ensure the overall projected FTE evolution by 2027 ('%);
e) Ensure effective and efficient budget management (planning and execution), ap-
propriate risk management.

In order to ensure active involvement from all units across the agency and to monitor the
implementation of the SAP, an internal task force has been set up in 2023. This task force
ensures optimal communication across the Agency on the SAP and its milestones, as well
as the implementation of key milestones. Finally, the Strengthening Action Plan has been
added to the Strategic Calendar of the Executive Board of the Agency. A rapporteur has
been appointed and will support, guide, and monitor the implementation until the end
of the plan in 2027.

C.5. Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks

C.5.1. Paused activities for the year 2025
@ NSA Annual Performance review

™@ Review of NIB accident investigation reports

C.5.2. Stretched and targeted outputs for the year 2025

™ The Agency has been working on the Common Safety Methods on the assessment
of Safety Level and Safety Performance for several years, following its mandate. It
also is one of the priorities of the Strengthening Action Plan. However, an informa-
tion sharing system is needed to prevent future accidents and improve safety as a

(9) -4TAs in 2026 and -2TAs in 2027

44 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 47 ---
C.5.3.

whole. The Agency does currently not have sufficient budget to create such tool.
The Agency has therefore developed a document with the resources required to
develop and implement such tool, along with a timeline and the stages of im-
plementation. The Information Sharing System (ISS) would require an estimated
2,375,000 EUR budget and a total of 8 FTEs.

The Agency will continue to work intensely on its NSA monitoring activities, as it is
one of the policy priorities highlighted in the Strengthening Action Plan. However,
there is a need to develop, together with Member States, a new Priority Coun-
tries Programme (PCP) at EU level, with a broader approach including more rail-
way stakeholders such as Member States, NSA/NIB, RUs, IMs, AsBo, NoBo, Notifying
Authorities, National Accreditation Bodies and other checking bodies, and finally
other operational stakeholders such as ECM, and wagon keepers. The PCP has the
potential to provide a more holistic picture of railway safety and interoperability in
the Member State, and to bring further changes to improve safety across the EU.
In order to deliver this new initiative, the Agency would need an additional 50,000
EUR per year, along with 3 FTEs.

Growth of activities at risk of underdelivery

In 2025, the Agency anticipates yet another surge of applications, with the highest
figures ever recorded for VAs and SSCs since the start of the implementation of
the 4" Railway Package Technical Pillar. The Agency's resources have already been
stretched to the maximum of their capacity in 2024 to cope with the increase of
F&C activities and there is unfortunately no more room. This issue is also worsened
by the fact that only a handful of staff have the skills to tackle specific VA with
ERTMS retrofitting components. Therefore, as the Agency will always prioritise the
delivery of authority activities, there is a critical risk that the ERTMS objectives for
2025 will not be achieved due to this intense pressure. Given the expected high
workload linked to the ERTMS retrofitting, the Agency might even not even be
able to meet its legal deadlines requirements in this field in 2025. Difficult deci-
sions may have to be taken in 2025 by the Agency if the situation is not resolved.
The Agency will continue its bilateral discussions with the European Commission
to assess how to best proceed to tackle this issue.

The Agency will also face resource pressure related to the new cybersecurity reg-
ulations (EU 2023/2841) which entered into force on January 7, 2024. The required
efforts to comply with this legal act are estimated at the moment by the Agency at
€150,000 per year and 2,3 FTEs. Given the cap on the human resources at the Agen-
cy, and that no additional resources were granted for these activities, the Agency
will endeavour to perform as well as possible given the current circumstances.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 45

--- Page 48 ---
Il. Annual Work
programme 2025


--- Page 49 ---
A. Executive summary

The Annual Work Programme for 2025 details all the programmes which will be carried
out to contribute to the Agency's goals in the year. The structure of the Work Programme
has been organised against desired long-term outcomes, implementing therefore an ef-
fective multi-annual work programme with developed objectives, as well as the interven-
tion logic.

The annual work programme 2025 is aligned with the priorities listed in the Agency's
Strengthening Plan and the corresponding implementing document (SAP 2023-2027),
which represents an anchor for the planning in SPD 2025 and the subsequent ones.

The work programme also now reflects the new structures at the Agency with 22 pro-
grammes, which will be implemented as of January 1, 2025.

The Agency's efforts in 2025 are particularly focused on:

® Technical and operational barriers: The Agency will work towards the reduc-
tion of technical and operations barriers within the rail market through, among
others, the amendment of TSls to be aligned with the technical innovations, har-
monisation of national rules among MSs, continuous NoBo monitoring, the deliv-
ery of 4" Railway package activities (SSC, ERTMS TA, VA), and the deployment of
ERTMS.

® Safety: The Agency will strengthen safety on rail through the development of
a safety culture, the monitoring of National Safety Authority, the Common Safe-
ty Methods on Assessment of Safety Level and Safety Performance (within the
boundaries linked to the resource constraints for the information sharing system),
and other relevant programmes.

| Data developments and ticketing: The Agency will continue to foster develop-
ments in the field of Linked data, as well as development under the TAP/TAF TSI.
The Agency will continue its work on databases and registers optimisation.

® Communication and dissemination: The Agency will increase communicating
and disseminating relevant information and knowledge to its stakeholders, as well
as organising events and showcase interesting projects and developments within
the rail sector.

™ Good governance: The Agency will strive for governance excellence and effi-
ciency in all of its activities and will continue its efforts for improving budget exe-
cution rates and overall compliance and performance.

To best illustrate the alignment between SPD 2025 and SAP 2023-2027, the indicators and
targets which contribute to the Strengthening Action Plan are indicated with a ticked box
in the annual tables hereinbelow. Moreover, the number of FTEs linked to SAP 2023-2027
is also highlighted in a separate column.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 47,

--- Page 50 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B. Programmes (9)
B.1. Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods
by rail, assets can be reused throughout Europe

B.1.1. ERA1221 - Authority task management

The programme aims at supporting the process of delivering SSC, VA and TA decisions according to the legal framework in the most efficient and effective

Programme's objectives                                                            ，        ae             .                                    1                             1                   |
9                 J                             way. It also supports the dissemination of information from return of experience, provides and update guidance material for the three streams of work.

FTE                                              17.88
Budget                                         € 1,596,912
Outputs

人ndicato T_Trct | sp |

Authority programme
management

Business helpdesk                        90% of answers delivered in maximum 10 working days

Follow-up of audit findings for
authority processes

Invoicing of recovery orders             98% of invoices issued according to the contractual deadlines

4 meetings organized to collect feedback, identify lessons learned and possible improvement for ERA processes, guides and procedures
95% of change requests implemented following the change control process

4 meetings organized to collect feedback, identify lessons learned and possible improvement for ERA processes, guides and procedures
95% of change requests implemented following the change control process

4 meetings organized to collect feedback, identify lessons learned and possible improvement for ERA processes, guides and procedures
95% of change requests implemented following the change control process

OSS maintenance and                     99% availability during ERA service hours

improvement                              95% of significant problems detected during operation for which solutions are identified implemented in a next release.

99% of assessment team assigned within 10 working days

100% of audit recommendations closed by agreed deadline

VA Process maintenance
SSC Process maintenance

TA Process maintenance

(°) Budget figures only include EU contribution and F&C

48 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 51 ---
B.1.2. ERA3300- Delivering VA

Programme's objectives
FTE
Budget

Outputs

VA decisions

B.1.3. ERA3400 - Delivering TA

Programme's objectives
FTE
Budget

Outputs

TA decisions

Programme's objectives

FTE

Deliver VA decisions according to the legal framework in a harmonised way
18.55 + 0.70 from SP
€ 2,144,416 (of which € 2,124,000 for NSA costs and € 14,416 for PoE costs)

Target                                                                                                            SAP
100% of decisions taken according to the legal framework deadlines
Deliver TA decisions according to the legal framework in an harmonised way
1.72
€ 222,651 (all of which for PoE costs)
Target                                                                                                            SAP

100% of decisions taken according to the legal framework deadlines

B.1.4. ERA1218 - Manage ERTMS long term evolution

The objectives of the progamme ERA1218 are to

¢ Maintain the CCS TSI and ERTMS specifications. This includes updating the CCS TSI application guide, dissemination activities (incl. organisation of bi-
annual ERTMS conference) and maintaining the CCS TSI text and ERTMS specifications.

¢ Enhance the CCSTSI and ERTMS specifications. The ERA programme will focus on implementing the EC-request and System Pillar input by issuing a
recommendation by end 2026 (incl. FRMCS-specifications) and issuing a recommendation by end 2028.

10.35 + 2.74 from SP

Budget

€ 150,000

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 49


--- Page 52 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Outputs

ta se |

CCM - EECT ETCS

CCM - EECT RMR (GSM-R & FRMCS)

CCS TSI - Maintain and enhance
CCS framework

ERTMS BCA report
ERTMS Operational harmonisation

Support for the EU-wide
deployment of ERTMS (e.g. CINEA)

Programme's objectives

FTE
Budget

Outputs

Number of ETCS and ATO enhancements CRs closed according to workplan

Number of ETCS and ATO errors CRs closed according to workplan

Number of RMR enhancement CRs closed according to workplan

Number of RMR error CRs closed according to workplan

CCS TSI change requests developed from EC-mandate according to plan

Working Parties managed according to ERTMS 2025 calendar

Publication of the ERTMS BCA report (incl. results of ERA questionnaires) according to TSI CCS point 7.2.10 - Specifications maintenance
ETCS generic handbook updated

Number of CRs closed according to the workplan

100% of CINEA- DG Move requests assessed

B.1.5. ERA1175 - Rolling stock and fixed installations harmonisation

The programme will aim at contributing to achieving SERA and the interoperability of the railway system by defining, maintaining, and supporting the

implementation of the optimum level of technical harmonisation. It focuses, among others, on TSls, National Technical Rules, and standards.
6.05 + 3.07 from SP
€ 65,000

CS

TSI - programme implementation
- phase 1

NTR - assessment and reduction
through EU harmonisation

Standards management

Support, assistance, and
coordination with relevant
stakeholders

100% EC requests considered by ERA and allocated to a CR workflow

7 Technical Working Groups organised

6 Working Parties organised

Progress report to RISC at June meeting

100% of TOs sent after negative assessment of the notified NR according to ERA regulation

100% of the VA NRs positively assessed by end 2024 to be transferred into TSls CRs

50% of the mandatory references of ENs in TSls assessed

100% participation to NB Rail plenary and strategy to monitor the development of Q&Cs, RFUs, and logbook
2 ERA-UIC meetings held according to the coordination framework

TO/Advices/ Derogations delivered according to the procedure

50 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

v


--- Page 53 ---
B.1.6. ERA1172 - Railway operations harmonisation

Programme's objectives

FTE
Budget

Outputs

The programme aims at contributing to the harmonisation of operational rules and practices, as much as possible and accepted by all stakeholders,

with the objective of reducing operational barriers for the SERA and improving the overall performance of the railway system, including considering the
interfaces with other EU legislation including ongoing/future developments.

3.98 + 1.01 fromm SP

€ 65,000

oo

AMOCs

NSRs assessment framework

NSRs cleaning-up process 1.0
(transition to SRD)

NSRs cleaning-up process 2.0 (TSI
OPE 2023 requirements)

NSRs review process (new draft
rules)

Support to EC on Train Driver
Directive related tasks
Support to EC on Transport of
Dangerous Goods

TSI OPE Application Guide update

TSI OPE implementation - pilot
projects (e.g. Brenner Corridor
Platform)

TSI OPE revision

At least two draft AMOCs submitted to WP from among the following: Safety of Load, Tests&checks&braking, and ATB
ERA Technical document published on ERA website

100% of rules notified in SRD analysed and with TO issued when needed respecting the ERA Regulation                                                     v

100% of the States who have submitted their NSRs informed of the result of the ERA analysis

100% of received MS national plans received and analysed, and dashboard updated

100% of SRD notifications assessed with TO when relevant respecting the ERA Regulation deadlines                                                              v

100% of SRD notification / rules that ERA became aware of through other channels assessed with TO when relevant as per ERA Regulation
deadlines

100% of EC request(s) processed

15 TDG official meetings attended

100% of requests for amending the Application Guide analysed based on the Operational Harmonization group (ETCS) feedback and
submitted to WP

70% of Brenner Corridor Platform meetings attended
100% of CR submitted to TSI OPE WP analysed and solutions provided so as to ensure the coherence between other EU legislation and the TSI

OPE
Proposal for new TS! OPE structure submitted to EC and WP                                                                                                                  v

Preparation of the 2026 TSI revision 1st deliverable                                                                                                                          v

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 51

--- Page 54 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B.1.7. ERA1226 - Interoperable da

Programme's objectives

FTE
Budget

Outputs

Cleaning-up of National specific
parameters in the telematics
domain

Data centricity implementation
for ERADIS+ - OCR - VKM - EVR+ -
ERATV+

Development of route knowledge
based on digital routebook

ERA compliance assessment
reporting

Iss

Single source of rail infrastructure
data - RINF

SRD - VA TSI compliance
System Authority for Registers
- alignment of legislative
frameworks

ta

The programme intends to:

。 Increase the data interoperability in order to reduce costs and resources needed for data exchange
。 Separate data from the application layer for the different systems the Agency operates

* Extend the use of data and the existing registers to support business needs / use cases

。 Extend the ontology to cover the railway system

13.39 + 5.62 from SP
€ 1,588,000

Analysis and publication of implemented National or Network Specific Parameters (NSPs)) by means of TAF/TAP by Q4 2025

ERADIS+ in production and OCR, VKM incorporated into the KG - data in KG in Q3
ERATV+ in production - data in KG in Q3
EVR+ in production - data in KG in Q3

A pilot project developed using RINF data enriched with microlevel information as a proof of concept for a core common digital routebook.
Potential alternative routes in case of contingency provided.

100% of compliance assessment reports produced in due time (3 months) for IT tools implementing TAF/TAP TSls taking into account
requirements from other regulations applying to the rail system and which development is under the aegis of ERA e.g. OPE TSI, ERA
Vocabulary, Cleaning up of National Rules, ...

100% of compliance assessment reports produced in due time
Assessment of the solution to allow accurate and full data history (who changed what and when in the data)
Formal publication of a legally valid Ontology for CSM-ASLP

Report on the machine to machine pilot for data exchange with national/company systems, including Agency recommendation for future
development.

Application Guide (AG) published Q1

Rail data provision allows retrieval of historic and future rail infrastructure data

RINF+ application in production to allow data upload as set out in the RINF regulation in Q2 (including the new elements in the AG)
Enable Vehicle Authorisation rules notification against TSls open point in SRD by Q4 2025

Agency recommendations delivered to ensure alignment of registers with other legal instruments (TSls, Interoperable Act etc)

52 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

Ce

<

<


--- Page 55 ---
Telematics enrichment with TSI
OPE

Telematics scheme seamlessly
integrated with ERA ontology and
ERA KG

Transposition of EU data policy in
the ERA digital roadmap
Registers management

B.1.8. ERA1240 - System Pillar

Programme's objectives

FTE

Budget
Outputs

ERA contribution to the System

Pillar activities
ERA use of outputs from EU Rail JU
SPCG & SPSG

ERA ontology includes telematics components as per TS! OPE (EU instructions), such as temporary capacity restrictions and timetable
information linked to a route.

Pilot project to test route book information including timetable data completed

ERA KG pipeline from rail timetables and tariffs databases and NAPs towards ERA KG (pilot)

Agency participates in the pilot phase of interoperability assessments in the Interoperable Europe Act
Agency contributes regularly in the European Mobility Data Space regular meetings and surveys
Registers related service requested by customers processed within 10 working days, as determined in the service level agreement

This programme will aim at bringing a clearer definition of the EU Target rail system.

At least 2 position papers / comments on SP documents delivered

Mature CRs from the SP integrated into the ERA CCM process
90% of meetings attended by ERA

Technological watch

Update of the compelling vision published on ERA website before 31/12/2025

B.2. Strategic statement 2 & 3 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport
system and will be favoured as a transport mode by the new generation; rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as a

Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including multi-leg ticketing

The Agency portfolio has no programmes of which the main contribution is on strategic statement 283.

©) The allocation is higher than the contribution agreement foresees so as to offset the lower contributions in 2024. This number might evolve based on the grant renewal negotiations.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 53

--- Page 56 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B.3. Strategic Statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of transport for its users and workers

B.3.1. ERA3200 - Delivering SSC

Programme's objectives                  Deliver SSC decisions according to the legal framework in a harmonised way
FTE                                           6.63 + 1.51
Budget                                           €1,035,866 (of which € 876,000 for NSA costs and € 147,366 for PoE costs)
Outputs
hare se |
SSC decisions                                                           | 100% of decisions taken according to the legal framework deadlines                                                                          |

B.3.2. ERA1219- CSM-ASLP

The programme will aim at the strengthening of safe operations via harmonising the collection, sharing of information, analysis, and user support to

le ahiecti
Programme's objectives                   implement safety legislation, incl. strengthening the JNS through its legal implementation.

FTE                                                 3.50 + 0.70 from SP

Budget                                    € 15,000

Outputs

fmdicaato YC
CSM ASLP development                  Publication of first version and then maintenance of mandatory Technical Documents, including support to ISS development

CSM ASLP guidance development _| First version guidance available and presented by GoA working groups for approval                                                                                        v

GoA/JNS procedures                       1 fast track procedure completed                                                                                                                                                    v
1 normal procedure « cross wind » completed                                                                                                                                        v

Management of GoA                      At least 1 steering committee meeting organised & 5 subgroups and plenary meetings                                                                              v

Support to CSM ASLP and ISS

customers to populate and              80% of answers delivered in 10 working days                                                                                                                                        v

consume data

54 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 57 ---
B.3.3. ERA1167 - Sustainable safety management

Programme's objectives

FTE
Budget

Outputs

The programme has 2 main objectives:
1. To support the sector in terms of safety management (incl. the management of Human and Organisational factors) by:
* Clarifying the legal requirements;
* Explaining how these requirements can contribute to achieving broader business objectives;
This will be achieved through regular coordination and dialogue with the sector and through specific and targeted initiatives.

2. To support the sector in improving the learning from accidents and near-misses by:
。 Encouraging knowledge sharing
* Proposing methods for harmonised and deep analysis
This will be achieved through:
* Ensuring comprehensive and timely feedback mechanisms
* Conducting a detailed study to explore the potential of utilizing operational data more effectively;
* Implementing dedicated communication channels;
7.29

€ 36,250

58 se |

HOF - dissemination

Increased performance of SMS -
draft new regulation of Type 5 NSR
Strengthen ASBO control level -
coordination of ASBOs

Strengthen ASBO control level -
sharing knowledge

Strengthen ECM control level -
coordination with ECMs
Strengthen ECM control level -
sharing knowledge

Strengthen NIB control level -
sharing knowledge

Strengthen SMS - sharing
knowledge

HOF network meeting organised
Presentation of HOF topic during ERA safety days and one external conference

Guidance/training developed

3 working group meetings organised, 3 technical meetings organised, at least 2 RFU delivered
Assessment scheme for Assessment bodies (CSM RA) developed

3 coordination meetings and 3 technical meetings organised

Support material on ECM certification published or delivered in accordance with the multi-annual action plan

100% of bilateral feedback provided to NIB within 6 months from the time of the request
Voluntary participation of NIBs in the CSM ASLP ISS test phase ensured and documented
Webinar/specific seminar on accident/incident investigation organised

TDG RMP connection between risk estimation engine and user interface functional

Web page containing an interactive SMS wheel, including detailed navigation

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 55.

--- Page 58 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B.3.3. ERA1249 - STARS (’')

Programme's objectives

FTE
Budget

Outputs

Safety events content definition

Safety training development and
delivery

Programmes’ objectives
FTE
Budget

Outputs

Capacity building on Safety

Capacity building on Safety and
Interoperability

B.3.4. ERA1253 - Capacity building on Safety & Interoperability in Greece

The programme intends to improve the implementation of the railway legislation by EU railway stakeholders (sector and authorities) and enhance
safety culture in railways across Europe

3.06

€ 153,000

Content for safety days prepared

100% delivery of the updated training plan

100% of requests for corporate safety training and assistance responded

2 new modules on the platform (language and/or content) embedded on the ERA e-learning platform

2 new training courses expanding the ERA safety training portfolio (classroom / online training)

2025 campaign launched for the qualification scheme for safety training subject to positive feedback from the Pilot

The programme intends to improve the implementation and application of the EU regulatory framework on railway safety and interoperability in Greece

1.24
N/A - The programme's operational expenditure will be financed through a dedicated contribution agreement.

at | SAp |

All relevant E-learning tools (EU railway safety culture model, organisational just culture basics, SSC for assessors) translated in the Greek
language
At least 4 sessions of trainings/ workshops on risk management, supervision and competences management system delivered

6 reports on capacity building workshops and on the support provided regarding ERTMS implementation delivered

Sent to DG Reform

Final Report

e)

Safety Trainings and Assistance to Rail Stakeholders

56 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 59 ---
B.3.5. ERA1224 - Monitoring NSA/NoBo & NIB peer review

Programmes’ objectives                of EU legislation on railway safety and interoperability in the respective MSs.

FTE                               8.96 + 4.17 from SP
Budget                                         € 288,000
Outputs

4 NIB peer reviews supported
ERA attending all NIB Task Force meetings
“Knowledge hub" to promote best practices and train NoBos (widening it to EU accession countries) started at the end of the 1st NoBo audit

MB Decision)

B.4. Strategic Statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergency situations
The Agency portfolio has no programmes of which the main contribution is on strategic statement 5.
B.5. Strategic Statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive as a mode and as a sector

B.5.1. ERA1188 - Economic analysis and research

The programme has 2 main objectives:

The programme aspires to identify, anticipate, and avoid issues that may raise from an incorrect implementation by NSAs/NoBos/NIBs of the requirements

NIB                                              cycle.
20 NoBo audits or inspections performed (incl. follow-up)
At least 12 reports for NoBos audit/inspection delivered
9 NSA audits performed onsite
NSAs                                            Report on findings from 2nd NSA monitoring cycle delivered to MB (incl. conclusions from 1st cycle and possible recommendation for future

Programmes’ objectives                  1. To provide analytical support throughout the Agency and its stakeholders in order to deliver objective and credible evidence for decision-making;

2. To identify and monitor rail research activities to support technical progress of the Single European Railway Area;
FTE                                              5.39
Budget                                         € 69,300

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 57

--- Page 60 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Outputs

75% of the initiatives/actions of Environment management (Annex VI) actions planned for current year completed

Environment management
Impact assessments for RECs / OPIs | 6 Impact assessments delivered in line with the TSI revision package

Research project monitoring          Research projects with ERA level of interest 3 (high interest) monitored through yearly report
Statutory reports                           CST report available 31/03/2025, annual overviews available by Q3 2025

Targeted studies                          Complete targeted studies in line with the time schedule of the TSI revision package

B.6. Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA authorisations will be globally recognised

B.6.1. ERA1145 - Stakeholder Relations, Academy & Communication

Communicate and disseminate to relevant stakeholders information relating to the Union framework of railway law and the development of standards

Programmes’ objectives                 and guidance in accordance with relevant communication and dissemination plans adopted by the Management Board.
FTE                                              11.36

Budget                                         € 903,897

Outputs

indicator |

Events & Conferences                    Organised as per the Communication and Dissemination plan

External engagement (networks,

social media, webinars, media         Implemented as per the Communication and Dissemination plan

relations, publications)

Internal Communication                 Implemented as per the Communication and Dissemination plan

Training                                     Developed and implemented as per the Communication and Dissemination plan
Website                                         Maintenance and update of the website, as per the business needs

B.6.2. ERA1147 - International Relations

It will, upon request of the Commission and in line with the EU priorities and the Agency's mandate, in the Union's neighbourhood policy areas and

Programmes’ objectives                beyond promote EU railways legislation, standards, and related railway knowledge in line with specific needs, and contribution agreements/grants.
FTE                                        4.95
Budget                                    € 15,000

58 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 61 ---
Outputs

Adoption of the updated Strategy for relations with third countries or international organisation
Collaboration with OTIF ensured

International cooperation              Engagement with other international regulation bodies (Platform of regulators) ensured
Status report on the contribution instruments developments (Grant and Contribution agreement)
Support to EC in wider international engagement provided
IPA and Western Balkans             1 In ier trallmseait|p sul baatiiee!
4 training sessions delivered
B.7. Strategic Statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient governance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer
the best value for money to citizens and business in the EU

B.7.1. ERA1156 - Corporate governance

The programme intends to ensure that the Agency is:

。 Sufficiently resourced;

。 Diverse and collegial;

。 Performing efficiently, effectively, and in a legally compliant manner following envisaged strategies ;

Programmes’ objectives

FTE                               13.20 + 2.15 from SP
Budget                                         € 75,000
Outputs

<10% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T1

<20% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T2

<30% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T3

>95% of execution of carried-over payment appropriations from the previous year

>95% of payments made by contractual deadline

>98% of appropriations committed

100% of budget transfers approved in line with ERA Financial Regulation provisions

At least 5 intermediate and 1 annual budget execution reports prepared

EB and MB proceedings                  MB/EB secretariat organised and support provided as per the EB and MB rules of procedure

Budget management

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 59

--- Page 62 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

8 se |

system (IMCS)

Portfolio management

Strategic monitoring

Strategic planning

Strategic reporting

Programmes’ objectives
FTE
Budget

Outputs

Accounting

Board of the Appeal

Ethics

Legal support

Procurement

Securis @ ERA

Internal management and control

100% of processes leaned

100% of nonconformities identified for which corrective/preventive actions are identified

100% of IAS/ECA recommendations implemented in line with the action plan

Documented assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal control framework

Agency's most significant risks identified, assessed, documented and reported in CAAR. Remedial action plans put in place.
2 reports on Ex-post controls of legality and regularity of financial transactions

2 reports on biannual review of SUMMA access rights

At least 8 monthly management review reports (MMRR) delivered and actions followed-up

At least 4 corporate strategies steered and monitored (e.g. SAP, HR strategy, Women in Transport, ICT strategy)

SPD 2025 monitoring Dashboard presented to EB/MB (at every meeting)

SPD 2025 substantial and non-substantial amendments adopted by MB (substantial)/ by ED (non-substantial) as needed
First draft of SPD 2026 - 2028 endorsed by MB by January and final document adopted by MB by November

MB workshop for SPD 2027 -2029 organised, workshop report circulated and any potential follow-up strategies identified
CAAR 2024 adopted by MB by June

B.7.2. ERA1159 - Legal support, accounting & procurement

Provide support to the Agency to ensure legal compliance and perform the key duties of accounting, and procurement.
774
€ 90,000 (exc. budget line under T2 /T4.2 on Legal expenses)

Positive opinion in the CoA annual report on reliable Agency accounts

295% issuance of findings and decisions of the Board of Appeal on time, according to the Agency's role as the Registrar for the Board of
Appeal

Registrar role ensured as per article 7 of Impl. Reg. 2018/867

At least 15% of Agency's staff trained on antifraud and Ethics per each type of training

At least 90% of annual declaration of interests (Dol) submitted by staff members

100% of legal acts issued by the Agency, as defined by the Agency regulation, for which legal advice was provided

85% of procurement procedures timely organised out of the total number of procurement procedures planned in the annual procurement
plan

100% of pieces of advice and consultation provided on time

95% of information assets in the inventory which have an up-to-date risk assessment

60 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

v

eC


--- Page 63 ---
B.8. Strategic Statement 9 -The Agency will ensure a performant working environment, based on high-quality motivated human
resources and a collaborative behaviour

B.8.1. ERA1201 -ICT

Programmes’ objectives
FTE
Budget

Outputs

Cloud migration of the registers
Document and Record
Management

IT Cybersecurity

IT Digital Services
IT budget management
IT Governance and Compliance

IT Infrastructure

IT Service Desk
IT Learning & Development

Programmes’ objectives

FTE
Budget

includes information-handling tools used to produce, store, process, distribute and exchange information within ERA scope.
11.14
€ 975,000 from relevant chapters in T3/T4.3 + € 1,575,000 from relevant chapters in T2/T4.2

Migration of registers finalised in line with the defined roles and responsibilities
Support to ARES users provided

100% of operational systems with up-to-date IT security plan

Information system catalogue defined

Security plans updated

Cybersecurity framework established according to the plan in the Regulation

Enterprise Content Management and Identity Management ensured at Corporate level
Budget execution targets reached

IT risk register updated annually and adopted by MT

95% Availability of critical information systems

97% availability of the core ICT systems

Disaster Recovery Exercise performed for each Information system at least once per year
> 70% users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent" rate of Service Desk

1 out of 3 training contracted/developed and delivered on Agile/Togaf/Cloud Management delivered to pre-identified ERA staff.

B.8.2. ERA1202 - Facility Management

1. Demonstrating effective and efficient delivery of services that support the Agency's objectives;
2. Consistently meeting the needs of interested parties and applicable requirements, and

3. Being sustainable in a globally competitive environment.

6.55

€ 1,172,000 from relevant chapters in T2/T4.2

To bring value to the Agency's internal and external customers by providing technologies and techniques to manage information and knowledge. This

eC

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 61

--- Page 64 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Outputs

8 se |

1 evacuation exercise performed by external contractor

1 maintenance of the defibrillator performed by external contractor

Building Maintenance                      1 mandatory check of the lift per month performed by external contractor

1 mandatory check of the power grid performed by external contractor

Update of « document unique » performed (French legal requirement for buildings)
> 70% users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent" rate of Service Desk

Customer supPort                          Office removals organised and performed by external contractors

ERA environmental footprint           1 report delivered on ERA environmental footprint (paper consumption from printing, carbon footprint of missions)
FM budget management                  Budget execution targets reached

FM Security                                     Report on implementation of video surveillance. (report available for MT)

B.8.3. ERA1203 - Human Resources

Programmes’ objectives                  Ensure compliance with staff regulations and implementing rules
FTE                                              8.14

Budget                                         € 1,458,949 from relevant chapters in T1/T4.1 (excl. Ch.11/41(1))
Outputs

ee |

100% of E-CF tool up to date

Competency Management              Competency framework reviewed and updated

Learning & Development                90% of the L&D budget implemented / Annual L&D report published

Performance                              Appraisal and reclassification exercise performed within the deadline
< than 5% of staff turnover

Selection                                       > than 95% of the establishment plan implemented

List with suitable laureates from selections

> 70% users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent” rate of Service Desk

1 event with Valenciennes partners organised

Actions plan from staff survey on wellbeing drafted

istration                      HR strategy actions implemented according to the plan

Process contract management and staff administration with PMO moved to EC tools (e.g. Sysper, MIPS)
Sysper appraisal module implemented and applied

Sysper job description module deployed

62 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 65 ---
B.8.4. ERA1207 - New Building

To define and integrate ERA’s requirements into the new building's design and construction, ensuring it meets our organisation's functional, sustainability,

Programmes’ objectives                  and capacity needs. This programme aims to deliver a modern, efficient, and adaptable infrastructure that supports productivity, innovation, and a
seamless transition for services and staff.
FTE                                              0.6
Budget                                         €0
Outputs
Indicator                                                                                                           Target                                                                                             SAP

New Building                             2 progress reports delivered to MT
Methodological note:

A. FTEs - the resources are planned for the Strategic Statements (in line with the envelopes shown above), as well as for ERA Management and administration.
The table shows in a separate column (‘Additional FTEs from SAP") the allocation of the additional resources envisaged in the EC proposal (12 TAs).

The margin up to the maximum establishment plan accommodated the difference between headcount and FTEs (e.g. part time work etc.)

           FTE from SP                      Total FTE

Strategic statement 1                                                      74.44                                  13.14                                   87.58
Strategic statement 2&3                                                   =                                      一                                      一

Strategic statement 4                                                     30.68                                   647                                   37.15
Strategic statement 5                                                      =                                      一                                      一

Strategic statement 6                                                       5.39                                   一                                      5.39
Strategic statement 7                                                      16.31                                    =                                     16.31
Strategic statement 8                                                     20.94                                   2.15                                   23.09
Strategic statement 9                                                     26.43                                   =                                     26.43
ERA Management and administration                                     8.59                                      一                                         8.59
Total                                                                        182.78                                21.76                                204.55

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2025-2027 | 63

--- Page 66 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B. Budget - the financial resources are planned as follows:

Expenditures                                              Note on the link to the Pg from the annual section                             EU Subsidy            站

These are not included in the Pg budget envelopes in the annual section above               € 23,881,904          € 8,428,737          € 32,310,640
Infrastructure operating expenditure              These are included in the budget for the ICT service and the FM service (StSt 9)                  € 2,207,600            € 539,400
Operational expenditure                            These are included in the budget for all the P's in StSt1 - StSt 9                                   € 3,623,447

Staff costs

€ 2,747,000
€ 4,889,846           € 8,513,293

Out of which costs for NSAs for the F&C           Allocated by ERA Pg's (ERA3200,3300,3400)                                                                      一                 € 3,000,000           € 3,000,000

Out of which costs for PoE for the F&C            Allocated by ERA Pg's (ERA3200,3300,3400)                                                                  一                 € 384,434             € 384,434
Meetings, missions, other costs.                     Not allocated by ERA Pg                                                                                      €52,509                  一                  所52.509
Other operational expenditure                     Allocated underthe ICT Pg in StSt9                                                                       € 780,000             € 195,000             € 975,000

TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                     € 30,545,459        € 14,052,983        € 44,598,442

64 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027,

--- Page 67 ---
IV. Annexes


--- Page 68 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex |. Organisational chart

Figure 1 - Organisational chart as of 01/01/2025

Executive Director (ED)

Railway Systems (RSY)

Rolling Stock & Fixed
Installations (FIRST)

Safety & Operations (SAFO)

ERTMS (ERTMS)

Planning & Approvals Delivery
(PAD)

Vehicle

Authorization (VA)

Safety Certification
(SSC)

ERTMS Trackside
Approval (TA)

Authority Tasks
Support (ATS)

Monitoring, Analysis, Ressearch
& Stakeholders (MARS)

Analysis (ALS'

Monitoring (MONI)

Stakeholders Rel.,
Academy & Comm (SAC)

66 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

rational Data (OPD)

Operation Data
Policy (ODP)

Operational Data
Systems (ODS)

Semantics &
Ontology (SO)

Data Lab

ED Office
Accounting
Legal
Ethnics
Innovation and Technology

Legal & Procurement (LPROC)

Legend

Department

Unit

Team (Sector)

Corporate Assurance &
Performance (CAP)

Corporate
Governance (CGO)

Portfolio Management
& Performance (PMP)

Budget Planning, Monit.
& Control (BMC)

Internal Management &
Control (IMC)

Resources & Support (RSU)

Human Resources
(HR)

Information
Technology (IT)

Facility Management
(FM)


--- Page 69 ---
Table 6 - Number of posts for each organisational entity (?”)

Department, Unit or Task force, Team (Sectol

Executive Director (ED)

ED (general)

Legal & Procurement (LPROC)

Railway Systems (RSY)

RSY (general)

Rolling Stock & Fixed Installations (FIRST)

Safety & Operations (SAFO)

SAFO (general)

Safety Training & Assistance to Railway Stakeholders (STARS)
ERTMS & Telematics (ERTMS)

Support to Greece (STG)

Planning & Approvals Delivery (PAD)

PAD (general)

Vehicle Authorisation (VA)

Safety Certification (SSC)

ERTMS Trackside Approval (TA)

Authority Task Support (ATS)

Monitoring, Analysis, Research & Stakeholders (MARS)
MARS (general)

Analysis (ALSY)

Monitoring (MONI)

Stakeholders Relations, Academy & Communications (SAC)
Operational Data (OPD)

OPD (general)

Operational Data Policy (ODP)

Operational Data Systems (ODS)

Semantics & Ontology (SO)

Data Lab

加
人
9
人

Expressed in terms of headcount, as of 01/01/2025, all posts (incl. vacancies)

Incl. 1 post not planned to be filled as per SAP - see Annex XIV
0.5 FTE on IPA Ill (2023/450-269) - see Annex XI

EU contribution & Fees & charges

aa [ca | swe | eros | tA] ca | se | Pon |
8                                                    11

Grants, Contrib. & SLAs

3                                                                   11

4           1                         5                                                             5
4           2                        6                                                             6
55        4         1         60                  3(*)                          63
7                                    7                                                             7
17                                        17                          1                                          18
12            3             1             16                          2                                         18
11             3             1              15                          2                                          17
1                                    1                                                             1
18            1                           19                                                                    19
1           1                         2                                                             2
24           8                       32                                                           32
3 (4)      2                                                                    5
9         3                   12                                                12
5                                                                                                  5
2           1                         3                                                             3
5           2                        7                                                             7
27        10         1         38                  1                             39
5           1                         6                                                             6
5                                    5                                                             5
12             1                           13                                                                     13
5         8         1          14                  1@)                           15
16        3         2         21                                                21
2           1           1             4                                                            4
6                       1             7                                                             7
4           1                         5                                                             5
3           1                         4                                                            4
1                                    1                                                             1

1.5 FTE on System Pillar (MOVE/C4/SUB/2021-454) as per the agreement, with an addition 1 FTE to offset the 2024 deficit- see Annex XI. There is an ongoing amendment, which should be finalised by Q4 2024.

ANNEX |, ORGANISATIONAL CHART | 67

--- Page 70 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Department, Unit or Task fe    Te    Secto

Corporate Assurance & Performance (CAP)
CAP (general)

Corporate Governance (CGO)

Portfolio Management & Performance (PMP)
Budget Planning, Monitoring & Control (BMC)
Internal Management and Control (IMC)
Resources & Support (RSU)

RSU (general)

Human Resources (HR)

Information Technology (IT)

Facilities Management (FM)

Facilities Management - New Building (FMNB)
Grand Total

EU contribution & Fees & charges                                    Grants, Contrib. & SLAs

1

SUS win

won

1

36

P sve | rnoas | ta] ca | swe | howe |
16

3
5
1
6
1

26

4                     206                                              4                                                 4

Grai      al

1

Fn UWA

210

68 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 71 ---
Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity
2025-2027 (7°)

Table 7 - Overview of revenues

2024 (?

Activit       Revenue source
                “* [ae  Buciget € | > FTE “* mE  Budget€ | FTE BE  ns*

EU contrib.               434      39.5                  8,211,079 | 46.0         :                  10,426,736 | 46.7      422                 10,563,081 | 47.3      42.0                 10,727,146

Stst 1         F&C                     33.7     26.3      7A       8,505,519 | 388        .       9.2      11,104,688 | 38.9     29.7      9.2      11,148,934 | 38.8     29.6      9.2      11,422,601
GCSLA                     3.0        27       03          600,800       28         .        28          395,250       28        0.0       28                  0       2.0        0.0       2.0                  0
StSt 2-3        EU contrib.                 3.0        28       0.1          535,364       0.0         .        0.0                  0       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0

EU contrib.               25.6      21.2       44        4447,181      28.9         !        45        5,478,029 | 27.8      23.3       45        5,554,014 | 27.3      22.8       45        5,557,801
F&C                              72         59        1.3         2,144,390        8.3           A          1.2         2,585,827        85         73        13         2,698,890        8.1          68        1.3         2,642,889
StSt 5          EU contrib.                 0.0       0.0       0.0                  0       0.0         kK        0.0                  0       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0
StSt 6          EU contrib.                 33        33       0.0          635,759       5.4         .        0.0          998,990       54        54       0.0        1,054,029       54        54       0.0        1,072,640
EU contrib.              11.0       5.9      51       2,976,189 | 16.3        A       8.6       3,733,262 | 16.3       76      8.6       4,063,667 | 16.3       76      8.6       4,178,925

StSt 4

StSt 7

GC SLA                     0.0        0.0       0.0                  0       0.0         .        0.0           22,500       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0       0.0        0.0       0.0                  0

EU contrib.             29.4     21.2      8.2       5,286,754 | 23.1         .       3.0       4,109,743 | 22.9      19.9      3.0       4,299,014 | 22.1      19.1       3.0       4,223,514

Sed          F&C                                                                             0.0         .        0.0           40,000       0.0        0.0       0.0           40,000       0.0        0.0       0.0           40,000
StSt9          EU contrib.               26.7      20.1       6.6        5,303,205 | 26.4         .        71        4,560,492 | 264      19.4       71        4,808,079 | 26.4      19.4       71        4,886,205
&             EU contrib.                 88        76       13        2,272,975       69         .        08        1,238,207       69        6.1       08        1,311,042       6.7        5.9       08        1,296,462
MeA           F&C                          8.1        64       17        1,263,247       17        1.5       0.2          322,467       17        15       0.2          338,095       17        1.5       0.2          335,879
EU contribution                          151.1 | 121.6 | 29.6 | 29,668,506 | 153.0 | 124.6 | 28.4 | 30,545,459 | 152.5 | 123.9 | 28.6 | 31,652,926 | 151.5 | 122.2 | 29.3 | 31,942,692
= Fees and charges             49.0 | 38.6) 10.4 | 11,913,156) 48.8 | 38.2 | 10.6 | 14,012,983 | 49.1 | 38.5 | 10.7 | 14,225,918 | 48.6 | 37.9 | 10.7 | 14,441,368
Total EU + F&C                               200.1 | 160.1 | 40.0 | 41,581,662 | 201.8 | 162.8 | 39.0 | 44,558,442 | 201.6 | 162.4 | 39.3 | 45,878,844 | 200.1 | 160.1 | 40.0 | 46,384,060
Grant, Contr. & SLA                     3.0        2.7       0.3         600,800       2.8        0.0       2.8         417,750       2.8        0.0       2.8                   0       2.0        0.0       2.0                   0
Grand Total                                        203.1 | 162.8 | 40.3 | 42,182,462 204.5 162.8 | 41.8 | 44,976,192 | 204.4 | 162.4 42.0 ，45,878,844 202.1 | 160.1 | 42.0 | 46,384,060

的 Staff numbers — in line with EU Draft Budget “2.1.2 European Union Agency for Railways — ERA"— include statutory staff only (establishment plan and external staff); as a consequence, Structural service providers, and Interim workers are not includ-
ed. External staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements are shown on separate lines
@) As per the adopted budget 2024

ANNEX Il, RESOURCE ALLOCATION PER ACTIVITY 2025-2027 () | 69

--- Page 72 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex Ill. Financial resources

A.1, Revenue
A.1.1. General revenues

Table 7 - Overview of revenues

Revenues                                                                             2024                                                                      2025
(EUR)                                                 Estimated                                      Budget forecast

2.EU contribution                                                                        28,645,912                                            29,733,355

1.43.+4.+5.+6.+ 7. Other revenue                                                                              12,935,750                                                              14,865,087
Of which 1. Revenues from fees and charges                                                                                  11,913,156                                                                          14,052,983
Of which 3. Third country contribution (= EFTA)                                                                                  1,022,594                                                                                  812,104
Total revenues                                                                                                                                       41,581,662                                                                               44,598,442

Table 8 - General revenues

VAR                      2026                     2027
2025/2024        Envisaged        Envisaged

request (EUR) | forecast (EUR)       (%)          (EUR)         (EUR)

. Revenues from fees and charges                                                      10,312,858        11,913,156        14,052,983                                                   14,225,918         14,441,368
. EU contribution*                                                  27,418,274      28,645,912      29,733,355                                   30,810,874      31,092,804

2023 Budget | 2024 Budget

Revenues                                                 (EUR)               (EUR)

of which assigned revenues deriving from previous years' surpluses                           69,639                 81,821                111,313                                                                             0                         0
. Third countries contribution (incl. EEA/EFTA and candidate countries)            801,315          1,022,594            812,104                                                        842,052            849,888
of which EEA/EFTA (excl. Switzerland)                                                               801,315            1,022,594              812,104                                                               842,052              849,888
of which candidate countries
4. Other contributions
. Administrative operations

70 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 73 ---
2026                     2027
2025/2024        Envisaged        Envisaged
(%)                (EUR)               (EUR)

2023 Budget | 2024 Budget
(EUR)               (EUR)

Revenues

of which interest generated by funds paid by the Commission by way of
the EU contribution (FFR Art. 61)

6. Revenues from services rendered against payment
7. Correction of budgetary imbalances

Total revenues                                                                                                                                         38,532,447            41,581,662            44,598,442                    p.m.                              7.3%                 45,878,844            46,384,060

A.1.2. Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements
Table 9 - Overview on additional EU funding

2024                                          2025
Revenues

Budget (EUR)               Budget forecast (EUR)
Total revenues                                                   1,628,300                        417,750

Table 10 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements

2025
2023                  2024                                                          VAR 2025/2024          2078                 2077

i   d     Envisaged
Budget (EUR'   Budget (EUR) Agency request Budget forecast     %       Envisage         9
下     (EUR)        (EUR)        ”        (EUR)        (ua)

Revenues

Additional EU funding stemming from Grants (FFR Art.7)                                          427,500               22,500                22,500
Additional EU funding stemming from Contribution                                                                                   G                      1G
Agreements (FFR Art.7)                                                                                  1,200,800              395,250 (**)          395,250 (*)
Additional EU funding stemming from Service-Level
Agreements (FFR Art. 43.2)  ;

Total

0       0       0

475,410 | ‘1,628,300 _     417,750 的

For the list of agreements and further details, refer to Annex XI: Plan for grant, contribution, or service-level agreements.

417,750(°), -74.3%      0          “pm.

国 There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar contribution agreement, which should be finalised by Q4. This number will evolve accordingly.
@) Ibid
的 Ibid
() Ibid

ANNEX Ill, FINANCIAL RESOURCES | 71

--- Page 74 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.2. Expenditures
A.2.1. Expenditure

Table 11 - Expenditure

Expenditure

(EUR)                                                                                                                                                                    Payment appropriations
Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                                        22,654,387                          22,654,387                          23,881,904                          23,881,904
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                                          2,146,913                           2,146,913                           2,207,600                           2,207,600
Title 3 - Operational expenditure                                                            4,867,206                          4,867,206                          4,455,955                          4,455,955
Total EU contribution                                                                         29,668,506                        29,668,506                         30,545,459                         30,545,459
Title 4.1 - Staff expenditure                                                                        7,633,433                            7,633,433                            8,428,737                            8,428,737
Title 4.2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                                         540,087                            540,087                            539,400                            539,400
Title 4.3 - Operational expenditure                                                                   3,739,636                              3,739,636                              5,084,846                              5,084,846
Total Fees and charges                                                                                   11,913,156                             11,913,156                             14,052,983                             14,052,983
Total EU contribution + Fees & charges                                                     41,581,662                          41,581,662                          44,598,442                          44,598,442
Title 5 - Grant Agreements                                                                              427,500                               427,500                                 22,500                                 22,500
Title 5 - Contribution Agreements                                                               1,200,800                            1,200,800                              395,250 (*7)                          395,250
Title 5 - Service-Level Agreements                                                                      0                                     0                                     0                                     0
Total Grants, Contrib. & SLAs                                                                            1,628,300                               1,628,300                                  417,750                                  417,750
Grand Total                                                                                                                         43,421,338                                  43,421,338                                  45,016,192                                  45,016,192

A.2.2. Commitment appropriations

Table 12 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)

2025 Budget
Titles & Chapters                                           2023 Budget               2024 Budget                                                                               VAR 2025/2024

(EU contribution)                                                (EUR)                         (EUR)                  Agency request           Budget forecast                   (%)
(EUR)                             (EUR)

Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                                  23,387,602                 22,654,387                 23,881,904                 23,881,904
Salaries & allowances                                                                                      22,855,686                     22,160,605                      23,314,704                     23,314,704
- Ofwhich establishment plan posts                                                                          20,091,094                            19,422,988                           20,340,349                            20,340,349
- Of which external personnel                                                                                   2,764,592                            2,737,617                            2,974,355                            2,974,355

后 There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar contribution agreement, which should be finalised by Q4 2024. The number will evolve accordingly.

72 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 75 ---
Titles & Chapters

(EU contribution)

Expenditure relating to staff recruitment
Employer's pension contributions
Mission expenses
Socio-medical infrastructure
Training
External services
Receptions, events and representation
Social welfare
Other Staff related expenditure
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure
Rental of buildings and associated costs
Information, communication technology and data processing
Movable property and associated costs
Current administrative expenditure
Postage / telecommunications
Meeting expenses
Running costs in connection with operational activities
Information and publishing
Studies
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure
Title 3 - Operational expenditure
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements.
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 1
- Ofwhich Strategic Statements 2 & 3
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 4
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 5
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 6
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 7
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 8
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 9
- Ofwhich ERA management and administration
Other operational expenditure
Total

2023 Budget
(EUR)

117,600
8,000
60,000
120,000
207,917
2,400
16,000
2,096,800
990,400
954,400
28,800
27,200
92,000

4,000

2,735,187
1,949,223
517,460
93,688
208,953

30,400
625,246
357,800

594
115,083
785,964

~ 28,219,589

2024 Budget
(EUR)

66,317
7,990
44,744
119,850
233,308
1,598
19,975
2,146,913
916,453
950,810
135,830
19,975
123,845

4,867,206
4,020,266
1,117,000
42538
381,003

80,400
1,419,298
808,416
120,625
50,986
846,940
29,668,506

| tos Budget     VAR 2025/2024
Agency request          Budget forecast                   (%)
(EUR)                             (EUR)

12,000
0
12,000
47,200
136,000
314,400
1,600
44,000
0
2,207,600
917,600
952,000
144,000
20,000
174,000

cooce

4,455,955
3,675,955
2,018,000

0
492,250
0
69,300
918,897
125,000
0
52,509

30,545,459

780,000

12,000
0
12,000
47,200
136,000
314,400
1,600
44,000
0
2,207,600
917,600
952,000
144,000.
20,000
174,000

ooo0 f°

4,455,955
3,675,955
2,018,000

0

492,250

0

69,300
918,897
125,000

0

52,509

__ 780,000
30,545,459

120.3%

2.8%
0.1%
0.1%
6.0%
0.1%
40.5%

-8.4%
-8.69%
80.7%
-100.0%
29.2%

-13.8%
-35.396
-84.5%
-100.0%
3.0%
719%
3.0%

ANNEX Ill. FINANCIAL RESOURCES | 73

--- Page 76 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Table 13 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)

2025 Budget

Titles & Chapters                                           2023 Budget               2024 Budget                                                                               VAR 2024/2023
(Fees and charges)                                                 (EUR)                          (EUR)                   Agency request           Budget forecast                    (%)
(EUR)                             (EUR)

Title 4.1 - Staff expenditure                                                                           6,578,851                       7,633,433                      8,428,737                      8,428,737                         10.4%
Salaries & allowances                                                                           5,799,499                    6,781,230                    7,536,987                    7,536,987                     11.1%
- Ofwhich establishment plan posts                                                          4,997,778                       5,864,707                       6,540,641                       6,540,641                        11.5%
— Of which external personnel                                                                  801,722                        916,523                        996,346                        996,346                        8.7%
Expenditure relating to staff recruitment                                                     一                              16,683                         3,000                         3,000                    -82.0%
Employer's pension contributions                                                           727,373                     727,985                     749,949                     749,949                      3.0%
Mission expenses                                                                                  一                               2,010                         3,000                         3,000                     49.3%
Socio-medical infrastructure                                                            一                          11,256                     11,800                     11,800                    48%
Training                                                                                                              =                                   30,150                            34,000                            34,000                         12.8%
External services                                                                          51,979                     58,692                     78,600                     78,600.                  33.9%
Receptions, events and representation                                                    =                               402                         400                         400                    -0.5%
Social welfare                                                                                 一                             5,025                      11,000                      11,000                  118.9%
Other Staff related expenditure                                                                 一                             一                                    0                              0
Title 4.2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                                    459,893                       540,087                       539,400                       539,400                       -0.1%
Rental of buildings and associated costs                                                     183,293                      230,547                      229,400                      229,400                     -0.5%
Information, communication technology and data processing                          238,600                       239,190                       238,000                       238,000                      -0.5%
Movable property and associated costs                                                     7,200                      34,170                      36,000                      36,000                     54%
Current administrative expenditure                                                              6,800                         5,025                         5,000                         5,000                     -0.5%
Postage / telecommunications                                          23,000               31,155               31,000               31,000              -0.5%
Meeting expenses                                                                                 =                             =                                    0                              0
Running costs in connection with operational activities                                一                           一                                  0                            0
Information and publishing                                                                        1,000                       一                                    0                              0
Studies                                                                                               一                             一                                    0                              0
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure                                         一                           一                                  0                            0
Title 4.3 - Operational expenditure                                                                3,274,114                      3,739,636                      5,084,846                      5,084,846                         36.0%
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements.                                           3,491,411                     3,526,576                    4,889,846                     4,889,846                      38.7%
=- Ofwhich Strategic Statement 1                                                                               2,345,578                            2,649,092                             3,813,980                            3,813,980                             44.0%
- Ofwhich Strategic Statements 2-3                                                                      一                                    一                                              0                                       0
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 4                                                                                  732,045                               877,484                             1,035,866                             1,035,866                              18.0%
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 5                                                                                  一                                        一                                                   0                                           0
— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 6                                                                                  一                                        一                                                   0                                           0

74 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 77 ---
2025 Budget
Titles & Chapters                                           2023 Budget               2024 Budget                                                                               VAR 2024/2023

(Fees and charges)                                                 (EUR)                          (EUR)                   Agency request           Budget forecast                    (%)
(EUR)                             (EUR)

— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 7

— Ofwhich Strategic Statement 8

- Ofwhich Strategic Statement 9

= Ofwhich ERA management and administration
Other operational expenditure                                                                   196,491                       213,060                       195,000                       195,000
Total                                                                                                                                 10,312,858                       11,913,156                        14,052,983                        14,052,983

A.2.3. Payment appropriations

Payment appropriations in current and planning years are identical to commitment appropriations.

A.3. Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

Table 14 - Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

Budget outturn (EUR)
Reserve from the previous years’ surplus (+)                                                                                         59,486                      114,225                        69,638                        81,821
Revenue actually received (+)                                                                                                 30,761,007                 32,834,965                  34,703,739                 40,357,546
Payments made (-)                                                                                                -27,440,679              -29,908,642              -33,246,670              -37,311,979
Carry-over of appropriations (-)                                                                                                -4,097,690                  -3,894,958                  -3,565,238                  -5,251,707
Cancellation of appropriations carried over (+)                                                                                106,232                       30,110                      40,317                       76,465
Adjustment for carry over of assigned revenue appropriations from previous year (+)                                   785,738                     1,008,478                     2,150,676                     2,245,241
Exchange rate differences (+/-)                                                                                                        -383                         -315                        -1002                       -4,253
Adjustment for negative balance from previous year (-)                                                                        -59,486                     -114,225                       -69,638                       -81,821
Total                                                                                                                                                                       114,225                            69,638                           81,821                          111,313

ANNEX Ill. FINANCIAL RESOURCES | 75

--- Page 78 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex IV. Human Resources 2025-2027 —
quantitative

A.1. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff

A.1.1. Statutory staff and SNE (?°)

Human resources                                                                      2024             2025             2026             2027

corresponding      Actually filled as                        | Asia | GE      eviccuaa statt      ee
toauthorised | of 31/12/2023 | Occupancy rate %                            g                 加

budget
Administrators (AD)                                                     136 (*)                                                                                               137 (3)
Assistants (AST)                               30 (*)                                                29 (7)                               28                28

Establishment plan posts

Assistants/Secretaries (AST/SC)                               0                                                                                  0                                                      0                          0
Total establishment plan posts                                 166                                                                                                              166                                                                       162                                160
FTE                                                                                            FTE                           FTE
corresponding      Actually filled as              ,           请        corresponding        corresponding
to authorised          of 31/12/2023       STINE)        to authorised          to authorised
budget                                                                                      budget                     budget

Contract Agents (CA)                                                                                                                                                                                    36                         36

External staff                                                                                                       Envisaged FTE     Envisaged FTE

Seconded National Experts (SNE)                                                                                          4              4
LET Ll) el drs Reset LOH Ul eeOs |
Total staff                                                                                            206                                        199                                     96.6%                                     206                                        206                                        202                                        200

) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table, but under Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements below
) 2 AST posts converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 332
的”Ofwhich 27 assigned to Fees and charges
) Of which 1 assigned to Fees and charges
) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges
@) Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

76 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 79 ---
A.1.2. Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements

Table 15 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements (39)

Human resources                                                      2024                              2025                              2026                               2027
External staff financed from agreements                              Envisaged FTE                Envisaged FTE                Envisaged FTE                 Envisaged FTE

Contract Agents (CA)                                                                                            .|                                                                     0.5 (“)
Seconded National Experts (SNE)                                                                                                                        0
Total external staff                                                                                                          3.5                                       2                                     0.5                                         p.m.

A.1.3. Other Human Resources

Table 16 - Structural service providers (*)

Actually in place as of
Structural service providers               yin P

31/12/2023
Infrastructure                                                                                                                                                                                 1
IT — Service Desk                                                                                                    3
IT - Security                                                                                                       1
Registers (including OSS)                                                                                      1
Other - Software management/development                                                        2
Total structural service providers.                                                                         8
Table 17 - Interim workers
Int       workers                                                  FTEs in 2023
Total interim workers.                                                                                           0

的 For the list of agreements and further details on the split of FTEs between these agreements, refer to Annex XI Plan for grant, contribution or service-level agreements.
(®) There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar grant, which should be finalised by Q4 2024. The number will evolve accordingly.

() Ibid.

(®) Service providers are contracted by a private company and carry out specialised outsourced tasks of a horizontal/support nature.

ANNEX IV. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 - QUANTITATIVE | 77

--- Page 80 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.2. Multiannual staff policy plan 2023-2027

Table 18 - Temporary Agents

2023

24                                    2025                                    2026                                    2027
Temporary       Authorised budget       Actually filled 31/12       Aut     ed budget         Request of ERA           Request of ERA           Request of ERA

Temporary

Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman. | Temporary | Perman.        Temporary | Perman.
posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts                posts
0                                                                                                       0                                                  0

posts
AD 16                                                                         0                                                                                                 0                                0
AD 15                                        1                                1                                1                                0                                0                                0
AD 14                                        0                                0                                0                                1                                1                                1
AD 13                                        1                                1                                1                                1                                1                                2
AD 12                                        2                                2                                6                                6                              10                              14
AD 11                                       14                              14                              20                              20                              23                              24
AD 10                                       19                              20                              15                               17                               17                               19
AD9                                              19                                   19                                  32                                   28                                   26                                  21
AD8                                              24                                  21                                   12                                   19                                   11                                   17
AD7                                              20                                  24                                  23                                   22                                   32                                   24
AD6                                              25                                   24                                   17                                   18                                   11                                   10
AD5                                    11 (9                         8                           10                            5                            2                            0
Total AD                          136 (5                    134                      137                      137                      134                      132
AST11                                                     0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0
AST10                                                    0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0
AST9                                               1                                     1                                     2                                    4                                    4                                    4
AST8                                           2(°)                                   3                                    3                                    4                                    4                                    4
AST7                                              4                                    4                                    5                                    5                                    5                                    5
AST6                                              4                                    3                                    4                                    5                                    7                                    8
AST5                                               7                                    7                                    9                                    9                                    8                                    7
AST 4                                           9 (3)                                  10                                    6                                    2                                    0                                    0
AST3                                               3                                    1                                     0                                    0                                    0                                    0
AST2                                              0                                    0                                    0                                    0                                    0                                    0
AST1                                                       0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0                                          0
Total AST                                          30 (5                                29                                     29                                     29                                     28                                     28
Total AST/SC                                          0                                                                                      0                                          0                                          0                                          0
Total TAs                                                     166                                              163                                              166                                              166                                              162 (“*)                                        160 (“*)

(®) 2 AST posts converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 332
() While the staff allocated for the SAP return of post will only work part of the year before retirement, the target of reaching 162 TAs by year-end will be met.
(®) While the staff allocated for the SAP return of post will only work part of the year before retirement, the target of reaching 160 TAs by year-end will be met.

78 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 81 ---
Table 19 - Contract Agents

Contract Agents
ERA staff (External personnel)

Function Group IV
Function Group III
Function Group II

Function Group |
Total

Contract Agents
External staff financed from Grants,
Contrib. & SLAs

Function Group IV
Function Group III
Function Group II
Function Group |
Total

FTE
corresponding
to the authorised
budget 2023

corresponding
to the authorised
budget 2023

FTE corresponding
Executed FTE as | Actually filled as   to the authorised    FTE request for | FTE request for | FTE request for

of 31/12/2023 | of 31/12/2023      budget 2024          2025            2026            2027

FTE corresponding
to the authorised
budget 2024

Executed FTE as | Actually filled as
of 31/12/2023 | of 31/12/2023

FTE request for | FTE request for | FTE request for
2025                  2026                  2027

p.m.

Table 20 - Seconded National Experts

Seconded National Experts

FTE
corresponding
to the authorised
budget 2023

Executed FTE as | Actually filled as

corresponding | FTE request for | FTErequestfor | FTE request for
to the authorised          2025                  2026                   2027
budget 2024

of 31/12/2023 | of 31/12/2023

Total

N/A                              2                                 4                                 4                                 4                                  4

ANNEX IV. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 - QUANTITATIVE | 79

--- Page 82 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.3. Recruitment forecasts 2025 following retirement / mobility or new requested posts

Table 21 - Recruitment forecast
Type of contract (Official, TA or CA)                                         TA / Offici
Due to foreseen            New post requested                  Internal                          External
retirement/ mobility | due to additional tasks

™ Engagement of additional TA and CA (Project Officers), taking into account the priorities from the Strengthening Plan Action Plan 2023-2027

Job title in the Agency

™ Open posts for SNEs to be filled from Calls for expression of interest published on the Agency's website

™ CAposts for VA/ERTMS depending on the outcome of the discussions with the EC
Foreseen retirement in 2025: 2 (ED, Project Officer AD 10)

Inter-agency mobility 2024: 0

(®) Function group/grade of recruitment internal (brackets) and external (single grade) foreseen for publication

() Recruitment Function Group (I Ill and IV)

80 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 83 ---
Annex V. Human
Resources 2025-2027 —
qualitative

A. Recruitment (engagement) policy

A.1. Implementing rules in place

ET四中

Engagement ofTA       Model Decision C(2015)1509      x

Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015 as per AB decision
(see below)

Applied by analogy since 02/10/2019 as per MB decision
(see below)

Applied by analogy since 25/06/2019 as per MB
decision (*)

Applied by analogy since 25/06/2019 as per MB
decision (“*), revised on 30/06/2023 (°°)

Engagement of CA      Model Decision C(2019)3016      x
Middle management | Model decision C(2018)2542     x

Type of posts             Model Decision C(2018)8800 | x

The following general principles guide the application of the legal framework concerning
the Agency staff:

a) The core of the Agency staff consists of Temporary Agents. All Temporary Agent
positions have been identified as long-term positions. Due to the budgetary and
establishment plan constraints the Agency is obliged to also engage Contract
Agents in order to fulfil its mission;

b) Temporary and Contract Agents are treated equivalently as far as possible.

In addition, it should be noted the Agency does not employ officials. However, there are
cases where EU officials have been engaged following an external selection procedure
and have therefore acquired the status of Temporary Agent in the Agency (whilst remain-
ing an official on unpaid leave in their institution of origin).

A.2. Selection and engagement procedures

The procedure for selection and engagement of Temporary Agents and Contract Agents
is based on Articles 27-34 of the Staff Regulations and Articles 12-15 and 82-84 of the
Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (CEOS), the
related Implementing Rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents and Con-
tract Agents, the Financial Regulation (European Commission's Framework and that of the
Agency), the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour and the data protection rules.

The Agency also makes use of the EPSO CAST lists accessible to Agencies for the engage-
ment of Contract Agents. Because of the Agreement on the European Economic Area
nationals of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are eligible for working for the Agency.

The selection procedures for the engagement of Temporary Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision N° 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agen-

全“MB Decision n°204 on middle management staff
(®) MB Decision n°203 on types of post and post titles in ERA
©) MB Decision n°326 on types of posts and post titles

ANNEX V. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 - QUALITATIVE | 81

--- Page 84 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

cy laying down the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the
engagement and use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS.

Depending on the function and the level of tasks and within the limits authorised by the
establishment plan of the Agency, Temporary Agents are engaged at the following entry
grades:

= AST 1 to AST 4 for the function group AST
= AD5 to AD8 for the function group AD

For managerial posts or highly specialised posts, the Agency can engage Temporary
Agents at grades AD 9 and AD10 or at grade AD12 for Heads of Department.

The duration of contracts for Temporary Agents is governed by Decision N° ERA-ED-
DEC-1109-2015. Staff holding a long-term post are normally offered an initial contract with
a duration of four years with the possibility of renewal. The standard practice for a first re-
newal is normally for a two-year period and any further renewal is for an indefinite period.

For staff on short-term employment, the duration of the contract depends on the dura-
tion of the tasks to be carried out. At ERA, the duration of those contracts is predominantly
related to the availability and duration of grants, or to a specific time determined activity.
In very rare cases it is to cover long-term absences.

The Agency is launching the following types of calls, published on ERA website's Recruit-
ment portal:
® Call for interest (partial internal re-assignment): CFI/ERV...

Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IM/ERA/AD/...
Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IM/ERA/AST/....
Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IAM/ERA/AD/...
Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IAM/ERA/AST/...
External calls for Temporary Agents-Administrators: ERA/AD/2021/...
External calls for Temporary Agents-Assistants: ERA/AST/....

External calls for Contract Agents: ERA/CA/2021/...

A.3. Temporary agents

The ERA Regulation 2016/796 which entered into force in 2016 makes no distinction be-
tween posts for long- term and short-term employment. Still a post can, in accordance
with Article 16 of Decision N° 121, be defined to be for short-term employment when it
involves tasks of a limited duration.

The decision to renew contracts of employment of Temporary Agents occupying a long-
term post is taken by the Executive Director based on two considerations: the continuity
of the post and the competences and performances of the jobholder, in accordance with
Decision N° ERA-ED-DEC-678-2013 and the Procedure PRO_STA_01 on the “renewal and
non-renewal of contracts of employment before the expiry date”

If a TA or former TA is awarded a second contract of employment in the same function
group, this contract shall be considered as a renewal in the sense of Article 8 of the CEOS if
the period between the end of the first contract and the starting date of the new contract
is less than 6 months. If the period between the two contracts of employment is 6 months
or more or if the new contract is in a different function group, the second contract of em-
ployment shall be considered a new contract of employment.

82 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 85 ---
A.4. Contract agents

The selection procedures for the engagement of Contract Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency
on the general provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the con-
ditions of employment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof.

In accordance with Article 85 of the CEOS, contract staff can be engaged for a fixed pe-
riod of at least three months and not more than five years. Contract Agents are engaged
for their specific competence in different areas of administration (finance, HR, IT, logistics,
legal, audit, quality management), in the railway domain or to perform manual or admin-
istrative tasks.

This type of contract is usually used to meet specific needs such as:
= Administrative tasks;
= Coping with temporary peaks in workloads;

= Launching new activities for which long-term commitment in terms of staffing
is unclear;

= Replacing staff on long-term absences such as maternity leave, long-term sick
leave or unpaid leave;

However, increasingly ERA has also engaged Contract Agents for other (long-term) tasks,
such as:

= Administrative and Logistician Support Agents
= Assistants

= Project Officers

A.5. Seconded National Experts (°')

Seconded National Experts (SNEs) are staff employed by a national, regional or local pub-
lic administration or a public intergovernmental organisation who are seconded to the
Agency so that it can use their expertise in a particular field. SNEs are seconded from
their national employer to the Agency's operational units on the basis of their specific
competency and technical expertise in the railway domain, based on Decision n° 173 of
the Management Board of the European Union Agency for Railways laying down rules
on the secondment to the Agency of seconded national experts and national experts in
professional training.

A possibility to mandate ‘cost-free’ SNEs also exists, where the Agency does not pay any
allowances or cover any of the expenses related to the performance of their duties during
their secondment, although the Agency does not deploy such SNEs at the moment.

SNEs assist the Agency staff and cannot perform (middle) management duties. The initial
period of secondment may not be less than six months or more than two years. It may be
renewed once or more up to a total period not exceeding four years. Exceptionally, the
Agency's Executive Director may authorise one more extension of the secondment for
the maximum duration of one year at the end of the four-year period. Each secondment
and extension are subject to an exchange of letters. An SNE may be seconded once again
provided that the conditions of secondment still exist and a period of at least six years has
elapsed between the end of the previous secondment and the new secondment unless
the previous secondments lasted for less than four years.

©) SNEs are not employed by the Agency

ANNEX V. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 - QUALITATIVE | 83

--- Page 86 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.6. Trainees

Professional traineeships last 10 months and are managed in accordance with Decision N°
ERA-ED-DEC-1063-2015, depending on budget availability.

A.7. Structural service providers

At ERA, the majority of service providers are intra muros IT consultants.

B. Appraisal and reclassification / promotions

B.1. Implementing rules in place

Table 22 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and
reclassification / promotion

Model decision

Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016 as per AB decision
(see below)
Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016 as per AB decision
(see below)
Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015 as per AB decision
(see below)
Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015 as per AB decision
(see below)

Reclassification of TA | Model Decision C(2015)9560     x
Reclassification of CA | Model Decision C(2015)9561      x
Appraisal of TA           Model Decision C(2013)8985     x

Appraisal of CA       Model Decision C(2014)2226    x

Concerning the performance appraisals and staff reclassification and promotions, the
Agency applies:
四 Decision N° 132 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency
on general implementing provisions regarding Article 87(3) of the Conditions of
Employment of Other Servants of the European Union

四 Decision N° 133 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency lay-
ing down general implementing provisions regarding Article 54 of the Conditions
of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union

四 Decision N° 122 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency on
the general provisions for implementing Article 43 of the Staff Regulations and im-
plementing the first paragraph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations for temporary
staff; and

四 Decision N° 123 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency
on the general provisions for implementing Article 87(1) of the Conditions of Em-
ployment of Other Servants of the European Union and implementing the first
paragraph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations.

They were first implemented for the appraisal and reclassification exercise of 2016. Since
2016, the Agency adopted and implemented the rules for the reclassification of Contract
Agents.

84 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027,

--- Page 87 ---
B.2. Reclassification of temporary staff

Table 23 - Reclassification of temporary staff

Average seniority in the grade among reclassified staff

Group and Grade
Pp                    2020                   1                2022                2023                2024         Actual average over     Average xe
5 years                  5 years (*7)
23                                                           2.3

ADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28
AD6                                      29                            19                            23                            35                            28                            29                            28
AD7                                      45                            46                            19                            26                            37                            42                            28
AD8                                      37                            24                            23                            3.5                            3.9                            34                            3.0
AD9                                      5.6                            45                            47                            27                            44                            43                            40
AD 10                                5.8                        95                        6.1                         43                        46                        54                        40
AD 11                                                                                                                  45                         3.9                        41                         40
AD 12                                                                                                                  3.9                                                    3.9                        6.7
AD 13                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.7
AD 14                                                                                                                  79                                                    79                        N/A
AST1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.0
AST 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.0
AST 3                                     45                            48                            49                            44                            49                            47                            3.0
AST 4                                                                                                    3.9                            3.9                            37                            3.8                            3.0
AST 5                                     3.6                                                           29                            3.9                            49                            43                            40
AST6                                                                                                    59                            29                            3.9                            45                            40
AST7                                                                    48                            3.9                            3.9                                                           42                            40
AST8                                     5.8                                                                                                                                                         5.8                            40
AST9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N/A
AST 10 (*)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.0
AST/SC 1                                                                                                                                                                            40
AST/SC 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0
AST/SC 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.9
AST/SC 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.7
AST/SC 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.3

() According to Decision C(2015)9563
() Senior Assistant

ANNEX V. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 — QUALITATIVE | 85.

--- Page 88 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

B.3. Reclassification of contract staff

Table 24 - Reclassification of contract staff (54)

FunaionGianp                                                                                                                          Average number of year:          Average number of years in grade of
grade of reclassified staff                   reclassified staff (*
18                                                                                                                 N/A                                            N/A
17                                  1                                                                                                                   Between 6 and 10 years
CAFGIV                                        16                               5                                                                          16                               Between 5 and 7 years
15                                 6                                       1                                       3.6                                 Between 4 and 6 years
14                               5                                     1                                    3.9                               Between 3 and 5 years
13                               3                                                                         25                               Between 3 and 5 years
12                                                                                                                 N/A                                            N/A
11                                  1                                                                                                                   Between 6 and 10 years
CA FG III                                      10                             3                                                                     29                             Between 5 and 7 years
9                                 3                                                                               48                                 Between 4 and 6 years
8                                                                                                                                            Between 3 and 5 years
7                                 3                                                                              N/A                                            N/A
CAFGII                                         6                              1                                                                       27                             Between 6 and 10 years
5                                                                                                                                   Between 5 and 7 years
4                                                                                                                                            Between 3 and 5 years
3                                                                                                                 N/A                                            N/A
CAFG1                                           2                               2                                                                         49                              Between 6 and 10 years
1                                                                                                          48                               Between 3 and 5 years

(©) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table
©) According to Decision €(2015)9561

86 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 89 ---
B.4. Mobility policy

Mobility within the Agency

Decision N 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency laying down
the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the engagement and
use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS (adopted on 25.11.2016) and De-
cision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency on the general
provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the conditions of em-
ployment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof enshrine the
scenarios for internal mobility for TA 2(f) and CA.

The Agency considers internal mobility when vacancies arise, but due to the very specific,
technical competences of a big part of the staff, internal mobility remains limited.

Furthermore, members of the Agency staff can apply for vacant posts within the Agency
advertised externally. A supplementary agreement in accordance with Article 10 of the
CEOS will be concluded as required if existing staff get a new job.

Mobility between Union Agencies

The implementing rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents 2(f) and Con-
tract Agents define the scope of mobility between EU Agencies. A very limited number
of the support staff who have left the Agency in previous years have accepted TA/CA
positions in other Agencies.

Increasingly staff members who took up long-term Temporary Agent positions at the
Agency come from other EU Agencies.

Mobility between the agencies and the institutions

Some posts are filled following an external selection procedure by staff coming from other
European institutions (in particular the Commission), although the number remains small.

ANNEX V. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 - QUALITATIVE | 87

--- Page 90 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

C. Gender representation

C.1. Data n 31/12/2023 statutory staff (only officials, TAs and CAs)

Table 25 - Data on 31/12/2023 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Establishment plan     Contract Agents           Grand Total

posts

Administrator level (AD + CA FG IV)
Female                         Assistant level (AST + CA FG -lll + AST/SC)

Total Female

Administrator level (AD + CA FG IV)

Assistant level (AST + CA FG I-lll + AST/SC)

Total Male

External staff financed         Contract Agents                      Grand Total

from Grants, Contrib.
& SLAs

Administrator level (AD + CA FG IV)
Assistant level (AST + CA FG I-Ill + AST/SC)
Total Female
Administrator level (AD + CA FG IV)
Assistant level (AST + CA FG I-Ill + AST/SC)
Total Male

Total

BNONN = =
BNONN = =

100%                                                      100%

Table 26 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle and Senior management (55)

Managers
Female                                                                                                         1                                     12%                                  2                                    20%
Male                                                                                                            8                                    88%                                  8                                    80%
Total                                                                                                                                                      9                                                100%                                              10                                              100%

€) Staff who is defined as middle manager by the applicable General Implementing provisions on middle management

88 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027,

--- Page 91 ---
D. Geographical balance

D.1. Officials, TAs, and CAs

Table 27 - Data on 31/12/2023 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Nation                                                  AD +CAFGIV                                          AST + CA FG lll + AST/SC                                                TOT.
Establishment plan posts       | Number |    % of total category    | Number |    % of total category                                          % of total category
1

Austrian                -—                            0.6%                                                     1                05%
Belgian                 oO          29               18.6%                15               36.6%                44               22.3%
Bulgarian               oe           1                0.6%                                                     1                0.5%
Croatian                令           4                2.6%                                                     4                2.0%
Cypriot                 4            1                0.6%                                                     1                0.5%
Czech                  (J           1                0.6%                                                     1                05%
Danish                                                                  2                                  13%                                    1                                   2.4%                                    3                                  1.5%
Estonian                a

Finnish                 +           1                0.6%                                                     1                05%
French                 a)           19               12.2%                15               36.6%                34               17.3%
German                全           9                58%                                                     9                4.6%
Greek                               8                5.1%                1                2.4%                 9                4.6%
Hungarian               到           3                1.9%                                                     3                15%
Irish                   qd)           1                0.6%                                                     1                0.5%
Italian                     4            24                  15.4%                   4                   9.8%                   28                  14.2%
Latvian                 一                                                                                                    0.0%
Lithuanian             )          2              13%                                              2              1.0%
Luxembourg             -—

Maltese                 全

ANNEXV HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027- QUALITATIVE | 89

--- Page 92 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Nation                                                  AD+CA                                                   AST + CA FG Llll + AST/SC
3                                                                                                                                                           3

Dutch                                 到                                                    1.9%                                                                                                                                 1.5%
Polish                        w               8                     5.1%                      2                      4.9%                      10                     5.1%
Portuguese                          8                     4                             2.6%                                                                                                  4                             2.0%
Romanian                            人                    10                             64%                              2                              49%                              12                             6.1%
Slovakian                             [* )                     1                             0.6%                                                                                                  1                             0.5%
Slovenian                            *)

Spanish                               a                   20                            12.8%                              1                              24%                             21                            10.7%
Swedish                              e                     1                             0.6%                                                                                                  1                             05%
British                                 se                     3                             1.9%                                                                                                  3                             15%
Total                                                                             156                                      100%                                       41                                        100%                                      197                                      100%

AST + CA FG L-Ill + AST/SC

Nationality                                         AD+CAFGIV
External staff financed from

Grants, Contrib. & SLAs                                                 % of total category                Number                % of total category                                               % of total staff
French
Italian
Romanian
Spanish
Total

— The AACC granted the Brexit exception to 5 UK Nationals as provided for in the Arts 12(2), 47 and 119 of the CEOS.

— ERA may engage citizens from EEA states (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), but does not receive any applications from these countries.

90 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 93 ---
D.2. Evolution of 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency

Table 28 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency

Most represented nationality

Establishment plan posts                                                                                 Number

Belgian

E. Schooling

No agreement is in place with a European School

Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type | European schools                          No
Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type ll European schools                         No      Informal arrangement with EEL(M) (Ecole européenne Lille Métropole)
Number of service contracts in place with international schools:                                            0

Description of any other solutions or actions in place:
Informal arrangement with Jehan Froissart Primary School in Valenciennes (EN curricula)

ANNEX V. HUMAN RESOURCES 2025-2027 — QUALITATIVE | 91

--- Page 94 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex VI. Environment
management

A.1. Executive summary

The revised SPD guidelines (°”) require Agencies to compile and formalise their Environ-
ment management policy. To achieve this ambition, the first Environment management
annex was drafted in which ERA summarised its commitment to higher policy goals,
the measures already in place, as well as the potential future environment man-
agement initiatives and actions, taking in consideration the responsibilities of the
Agency as a public administration body, while keeping in mind the impact of environ-
mental initiatives on the Agency's limited human and financial resources. Despite these
limitations, the Agency is a socially and environmentally responsible organisation which
pursues, whenever possible, the adoption and related implementation of environmental
measures and initiatives that can be achieved with the available means.

The Agency is committed to promote a culture of sustainability acting in a re-
sponsible and sustainable manner - see point 9 of the European Union Agency for
Railways Policy ). Concern for the environment and promoting a broader sustainability
agenda are integral to ERA's professional activities and the management of the organisa-
tion. In addition, the Agency is committed to urgently respond, within the boundaries
of its mandate and capacity, to the ongoing energy crisis.

The Agency's aim is to follow and to promote good sustainability practice, to reduce the
environmental impacts of its activities and to help its stakeholders to do the same. The
Agency's existing environment principles (°°) are covered under the following broader
topics:

Green building (©)
Transportation

Climate protection                Environmental preferable purchasing
Waste reduction and recycling | Sustainable resource management

ERAS wider work in the railway sector, including its authority and policy contribution to
a fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is covered under the
Annual Work Programme, in particular Strategic Statement 2 (°') and the specific activity
“Green agenda” under programme ‘Economic analysis and research’ (ERA1 188).

In addition to the broader policy context related to the Green Deal, the Agency pays atten-
tion to the environmental impact of its day-to-day operations (ie.to its building, staff,
management, administration, and functioning).

A.2. ERA in the broader policy context related to environment

As an Agency of the European Union, ERA pledges to the Commission's European
Green Deal (”) initiative. Consequently, ERA commits to deliver its part of the deal to
make the EU's climate, energy, transport and taxation policies fit for reducing net green-

(©) Communication C(2020) 2297 final of 20.4.2020 on the strengthening of the governance of Union Bodies under

Article 70 of the Financial Regulation 2018/1046 and on the guidelines for the SPD and the CAAR

https//wwwera.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/european_union_agency_for_railways_policy_en.pdf

Currently covered in the latest Environmental measures implemented at ERA status note (internal, 15/03/2022)

(®) The Agency is considering a green building certification for its new headquarters building project (Certification HOE
~ Haute Qualité Environnementale)

(°) "Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will
be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”

() See httpsi//ec europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en | https://ec.europa.eu/info/
strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal/delivering-european-green-deal_en

92 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 95 ---
house gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels - as defined in the
EU Climate Target Plan 2030 (*).

Since the publication of the Communication from the Commission on the European
Green Deal () in December 2019, ERA has strengthened its activities aiming at promoting
the role of the railways in the decarbonation of the European transport sector. To make the
European Union the first carbon neutral region in the world by 2050, lowering the trans-
port emissions is crucial. Between 1990 and 2019, the transport emissions have gradually
increased and reached 25% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the EU. The transport
sector is the second sector only to the energy sector in terms of emission.

However, looking at the same period, the emissions of the railway sector have gradually
decreased and nowadays represent less than 0.5% of the transport-related emissions. In
addition, railways are also the mode of transport with the lowest external costs (external-
ities).

ERA has a central role in fostering interoperability and safety of the rail transport which
should eventually make it more attractive, more efficient and thereby increase the modal
share of the railways, resulting the greenhouse gas emissions of Europe's transport sector,
in line with the objectives of the EC Green Deal:

Figure 2 - Sustainable mobility targets (Source: EC)

reduction

greenhouse gas emissions in transport by 2050

Reducing its dependence
on fossil fuels

ws

By 2050, there will be at least
30 million zero-emissions cars and
80 000 zero-emission lorries
in operation.

By 2050, there will be
at least 100 climate-neutral
cities in Europe.
Scheduled collective travel
under 500 km should be carbon neutral
by 2050 within the EU.

us

Zero-emission large aircraft will
become ready for market by 2035.

全

Making
alternative choices available

Alllarge and medium-sized cities put
in place their own sustainable urban
mobility plans by 2030.

Traffic on high-speed rail
will double by 2030.
By 2050 rail freight traffic
will double.

Transport by inland waterways and
short sea shipping will increase
by 25% by 2030.

)_https://myintracomm.ec.europa.eu/news/EuropeandBeyond/Pages/55-percent-emissions-cut-plan.aspx httpsi//

ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/european-green-deal/2030-climate-target-plan_en

() Communication COM/2019/640 final of 11.12.2019 from the Commission on the European Green Deal

Pricing to reflect
environmental impact

The internalisation
of external costs
of transport at the latest
by 2050 will ensure
that those who use transport
will bear the full

costs rather than leaving others

in our society to meet them.

ANNEX VI. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 93

--- Page 96 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Figure 3 - Smart mobility targets (Source: EC)

Unleash full potential                      By 2050, integrated electronic                 By 2030, automated mobility
of data.                         ticketing facilitates seamless multimodal           will be deployed on large scale.
passenger transport.
Freight transport will be paperless.

Figure 4 - Resilient mobility targets (Source: EC)

Transport has been one of the sectors hit hardest by the COVID-19 pandemic. The EU has now an opportunity
to build a mobility system that is sustainable, smart, and resilient: a system for future generations.

Building a strong and resilient                  Creating a mobility system                  Ensuring the highest standards
Single Market:                           that is fair and just for all:                       of safety and security
in European transport:

Investment in transport infrastructure         Make mobility affordable and accessible
across the EU Member States;               in all regions and for all passengers;                  By 2050, the death toll
for all modes of transport
in the EU will be close to zero.
By 2050, a fully operational, multimodal                Improve the conditions
Trans-European Transport Network                      for transport workers.

for sustainable and smart transport
with high speed connectivity.

ERAS wider work in the railway sector, including its authority and policy contribution to a
fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is reflected in all Agency's
strategic statements which form part of the Single Programming Document (multi-annual
and annual parts). The targeted conceptual work related to the Green agenda is captured
in Strategic Statement 2 (°).

In 2021, ERA led by example by having been one of the main organisers of European Year
of Rail 2021 (®), a flagship thematic initiative of the European Green Deal.

On the highest level, ERA also pledges to respect and act upon the United Nation's
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the 17 Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs).

(®) “Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will
be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”
(See https://europa.eu/year-of-rail/index_en | https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_20_363

94 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 97 ---
A.3. Environmental impacts of ERA activities

ERAS administrative operations related to its building(s) have direct and indirect impacts
on the environment. ERA’s impact on the environment falls under the following categories:

1. Use of electricity, including for heating and cooling, water, paper and stationery   ©)
2. Generation of waste and CO, emissions (including by travelling / commuting)      ty

3. Land use with regards to biodiversity (°)                                             ax

ERA pays attention to limiting the use of resources, taking the energy crisis into account,
and minimising negative impacts on the environment.

The recent geopolitical developments make the environmental - and in particular ener-
gy-related issues - more visible than ever before.

A.4. Accountability ceiling of ERA

ERA is committed to do the utmost to advance its environment management and neutral-
ise its impact on the environment. Nevertheless, it needs to be noted that due to outside
factors ERAS leverage may be limited regarding some proposed environment actions.

Current ERA headquarters building was put at the disposal of ERA by Valenciennes Métro-
pole through a rental contract. Other buildings (meeting rooms in Lille, parking) used by
ERA are rented in office buildings and parking lots, where the environment management
responsibilities and tasks lie with the property owner or manager. In the context of the
Covid-19 pandemic, the Agency has re-assessed its approach to meetings with stakehold-
ers and has limited the use of office spaces in Lille, as well as the missions of ERA staff and
externals to Lille headquarters. A large number of the Agency's meetings have been held
in remote mode, thus reducing the carbon footprint.

Moreover, ERA’s new headquarters building project has a key focus on environmental
considerations when setting up specifications and during negotiations. The new building
project complies with the EMAS/HQE recommendations.

It has to be noted that the railway link with the adjacent Belgian city of Mons is missing for
decades, with no rail service on the section between Valenciennes and the Franco-Belgian
border. Despite recent plans brought back the hope for re-establishing the connection, as
of today this condition leaves no feasible public transportation option for the significant
proportion of ERA staff living in Belgium. ERA remains a vocal advocate of recommencing
cross-border railway operations as defined in its Strategic Statement 1 (*), with a particu-
lar focus on this particular one. Nevertheless as of today, carbon footprint related to staff
commuting from Belgium to France needs to be mitigated with less desirable alternative
solutions, such as carpooling.

() As per the EMAS regulation (Commission Regulation (EU) 2018/2026 of 19 December 2018 amending Annex IV to
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 on EMAS). Note: the premises have limited urban green space or accessible rooftop
to be considered for significant improvement of its biodiversity.

(®) "There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail,
assets can be reused throughout Europe”

ANNEX VI. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 95

--- Page 98 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.5. Environment management initiatives and actions completed in 2024

Promote the use of “personal carbon footprint tool”
Perform a carbon footprint impact of ERA’s activities

Explore the possibility to reimburse a part of local
transportation pass

Procure and distribute ERA-branded reusable water
bottles for staff to reduce disposable cup use

Carpooling module in sharepoint

Bike internal communication campaign

Blood donation

Innotrans by train

Improvement of waste management

96 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

B. Reduction of carbon
footprint related to staff
commuting

F Waste generation reduction,
sorting and recycling

B. Reduction of carbon
footprint related to staff
commuting

B. Reduction of carbon
footprint related to staff
commuting

|. Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR), staff
involvement in environmental
issues

D. Carbon footprint reduction
and management of missions,
meetings and events

F Waste generation reduction,
sorting and recycling

Q1 2024

Q3 2024

Q4 2024

Q1 2024

Q2 2024

Q2 2024

Q2/2024

Q3 2024

Q2 2024

MARS/SAC

RSU/FM

MARS/SAC

MARS/SAC

ERA club

ERA club

MARS/SAC

MARS/SAC

RSU/FM

Not done

On-going

On-going

Done

Done

Done

Done

Done

Done

Priority was put on waste policy and adopting the
new indicators

ERA has adopted 4 main indicators which will be
used from 2024 and expanded

ERA is planning to develop a more robust
sustainable mobility policy.

ERA staff has been provided with an ERA cup. Paper
cups are not provided anymore apart in the canteen
for visitors.

Module to facilitate carpooling among ERA staff.

An internal communication campaign dedicated to
biking opportunities have been organised.

ERAs blood donation campaign is made on a regular
basis. During the last campaign, 15 blood donors
and 4 plasma donors participated to the campaign.

Innotrans is one of the most important railway event
organised every two years in Berlin. For the first time,
a special train service going from Brussels to Berlin
was organised. ERA's staff participating to this event
have had the opportunity to go to Berlin by train.
ERA has launched an internal communication
campaign to remind the sorting and recycling policy.
The bins in the canteen have been reorganised. The
number of the bins in the offices have been reduced
to one per type (one for recyclable and one for
general waste).

In addition, as part of the World clean-up day, a
plogging event to collect garbage in the area of
ERAS HQ have been organised.


--- Page 99 ---
A.6.

2023

2022

2021

2020

Environment management achievements of ERA until 2023

Reducing temperature in the building as agreed/recommended by French author-
ities, with no possibility for additional electric heating devices

Repair/replace faulty sensors to solve lights always on in some offices

Reduce/stop heating and cooling in underutilised spaces, allow for settings man-
agement at office level

Adjust auto-off settings of lights, reducing light level whenever possible, add man-
ual switches for “hard off” (not even activated with motion sensor), consider lights
off beyond working hours

Remove some neon tubes and/or replace them with LED in garage

Internal communication campaign on various topics such: energy efficiency, cy-
cling to work and composting

Purchase of bike repair station (or repair kit with pump)

Replace bottled water at events with alternative, less waste generating means (e.g.
distributing ERA-branded reusable water bottles, order of returnable bottle prod-
ucts with a deposit fee)

Include recyclable packaging in the criteria of the catering contract

Set-up of ERA Environment (Volunteering) Group to drive dissemination actions,
collect ideas and push for the progress of environment actions

Promotion of the transition rally organised as part of the European week of sustain-
able development in Valenciennes

Blood donation organised with ERA staff

Implementation of SYSPER having in view the digitalisation of formerly pa-
per-based processes and reduce paper use

Reduction in the number of missions and limited use of the Lille premises

Donation of old laptops to local charities and associations through the Mairie de
Valenciennes

Introduction of the new SharePoint system - having in view the advancement of
DMS digitalisation and reduction of paper use

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of Covid-19 pandemic

Providing ERA branded cloth masks through Better Together initiative (to reduce
use of surgical masks)

Reusable water bottles provided for the participants of the Rail Safety Days 2021
event instead of disposable cups

Substitution of the purchase of single use plastic cups for paper cups
Participation of the Agency at the virtual EU interinstitutional Greening Network
meeting

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of COVID-19 pandemic

ANNEX VI. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 97

--- Page 100 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

2019

2014

A.7.

Installation of LED lighting systems in the HQ ground floor corridor

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Refurbishment of all meeting rooms in the ERA HQ (installation of LED lighting
systems inside the MTG A131, B003-B005, BO16, BO17, and B018)

Installation of recycling stations for offices supplies in the ERA HQ
Purchase of eco office supplies and LED desk lamps
Communal areas of the HQ refurbished with eco-friendly material

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Installation of recycling stations in the HQ
Replacement of old fridges with new ones consuming less energy
Deployment of power off scripts for laptops left powered on

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Implementation of recycling and sustainable purchases via two catering contrac-
tors

Recycling workshop from the French local authorities to explain the recycling in
France organized by FM attended by colleagues within ERA (23/04/2015)

Installation of the recycling station at the canteen, plastic cup collection station,
plants in the reception and library, installation of recycling bins in the meeting
rooms at the headquarters

ERA started the gradual introduction of paper orders that have environmentally
friendly label (Ecolabel/Blauer Engel), and also labelled FSC. By today ERA purchas-
es products labelled “FSC Recycled” (manufactured with 100% recycled fibre of
which at least 85 percent is PCW recycled material).

Environment management initiatives and planned actions

Indicators have been adopted per main areas of actions in 2024:

Total electricity consumption (including heating) + FTE;
Total water consumption + FTE;

Paper consumption + FTE;

©, emissions for missions + FTE;

Phytosanitary products used (fiche de sécurité and fiche technique).

They will be reported for the first time in 2024. New indicators are planned to be devel-

oped

to have a more comprehensive view on ERAS environmental impact. From 2025-

2026 onwards, reduction objectives will be agreed on.

1. The actions listed in the sections below which require a budget envelope will start

2.

with a budget estimate as a pre-requisite. Budget availability will be assessed for
those actions before proceeding with the implementation.

Depending on the interest expressed for the volunteering group referred in part |,
this group can assist with other actions listed in parts A-|

98 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 101 ---
3. While some of the units/teams are referred in the column of responsibilities by the
nature of their role in the organisation, the successful implementation of the strate-
gy relies on the ownership and involvement of all staff members.

A.7.1. Consumption of resources (energy & utilities)

A Pareto analysis of energy consumption will be conducted to pinpoint the critical points
to concentrate on and put efforts in first. Based on this information, ERA will identify any
possible action to decrease the consumption.

List of actions:

Coordinator
RSU/FM

Action

Continue to procure green energy                               rolling

A.7.2. Reduction of carbon footprint related to staff commuting

ERA will analyse analogous schemes at Commission and other Agencies and evaluate the
feasibility of providing local public transport passes to staff (or retrospectively reimburs-
ing staff for these passes) to further encourage staff to use public transport and thereby
reduce their carbon footprint. The budget impact of such initiative should be properly
factored.

List of actions:

Action                                                            Coordinator

Development of a teleworking regime that requires | in line with COM

less office space (e.g. hot desks, rotational schedules)            Teg.                   RSU/HR

A.7.3. Green public procurement

Calls for procurement tenders of relevant goods and services should include “Environmen-
tal and social contribution” among the technical evaluation criteria (e.g. decommissioned
furniture disposal/re-use, recycling policy, donations). An “environmental impact state-
ment" will be written in the initial proposal for procurement and specific, robust environ-
mental criteria, and “environmental considerations" will be included in the calls for pro-
curement tenders of relevant goods, and services include. Tenderers will have to comply
with these criteria and considerations to qualify for a contract. It is planned to become a
standard ERA practice to build environmental considerations into procurement for rele-
vant goods and services.

A.7.4. Carbon footprint reduction and management of missions, meetings and
events

2Q)

ANNEX VI. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 99

--- Page 102 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

ERA adheres to Commission's guidelines on organising sustainable meetings and
events (®), and commits to promote the guidelines and incentivise to its staff to apply the
steps when organising meetings and events:

™ Step 0: Is a physical meeting/event necessary?

Step 1: Is the venue sustainable enough?

Step 2: Is the printed and promotional material sustainable?
Step 3: Are the 3Rs applied? (Reduce, Recycle and Reuse)
Step 4: Is the catering sustainable?

Step 5: Are the accommodation and transport environmentally friendly?

Step 6: Have social aspects been considered?

internal and external attendees to select train transportation where convenient connec-
tions are available, or air travel options with smaller carbon footprint (e.g., more direct
flight routes, less connections). In addition, travel policy and related internal communica-
tions will repeatedly emphasise to ERA staff that online meeting forms should be preferred
and picked over travel intensive face-to-face meetings whenever feasible and expedient.

Internal discussions are on-going to include a new indicator related to the environmental
impact of meetings and events organised by ERA.

A.7.5. Further reduction of paper and stationery consumption                                                              ©)

ERA will advance further digitalisation of the Agency, including the replacement of pa-
per-based processes with electronic workflows and other IT systems - in cooperation with
the Commission's DG DIGIT - such as:

™@ SYSPER (full rollout)

™® Microsoft SharePoint and Office 365: office solutions for paperless document cre-
ation and storing (full rollout)

™ Ares: document management and archiving system

ERA will continue to reduce the number of printed (paper-based) publications through
close management of the communication & publication plan. ERA will increase the use of
print on demand of its publications/materials and web publishing.

ERA will raise awareness among its staff to on further possibilities of moving towards pa-
perless office. As part of it, instead of the usual stationery “welcome package’, office sup-
plies will continue to be stored in a designated office and colleagues will be invited to
collect strictly what they need - on demand.

A.7.6. Waste generation reduction, sorting and recycling

(©) New release: https//ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/emas_for_you/news/news84_en.htm

100 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 103 ---
ERA will make sure that selective waste collection remains widely available in offices and
common areas of the current building and undertakes to provide for the same in the new
building. In the form of internal communication, ERA will raise awareness among its staff
about these recycling arrangements.

Moreover, ERA has a partner to recycle decommissioned IT equipment.

List of actions:

Acti                                     Target           Coordinator
Provide Ecocup to visitors and stop using paper cup         Q4 2025            MARS/SAC
A.7.7. Reduction of office space                                                                                 ©)

List of actions:

Action                                                            Coordinator

Teleworking rules, including clear criteria for
requesting full time presence on premises,
depending on the service needs

Flexible office arrangement in the new building

in line with COM
Teg.

RSU/HR

in line with new

Discontinue Lille office rental when the current              HQ project             RSU/FM        |
contract expires
A.7.8. Use of available green space, greening of the offices                                           BA

List of actions:

Action                                                            Coordinator

Design in the new building: planting native and high
CO2 conversion capacity plants, installing vertical
garden

Propagation of indoor vertical gardens in the new
building

in line with new

HQ project             RSW

A.7.9. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), staff involvement in environmental    BA
issues

List of actions: (7°)

Coordinator

Periodical intervention at General Assemblies to

inform staff about environmental topics                            ral                    CAP
Annual CSR activities organised to staff (e.g. tree

planting, garbage collection, social volunteering)                                    Volunteering
and incentivising teams to choose “responsible”                 rolling            Group / Better
team-building activities with added environ./social                                  Together
value

Promote events at the level of ERA staff, such as:                 ralltng               MARS/SAC

“green week’, “green day’ or “greener office contest”

A.8. Current status and plan for certifications and standards

ERA does not hold a certification for any of the environment/energy management stand-
ards (e.g. EMAS, ISO 14001, HOE, ISO 50001). However, especially in the context of the new
building project, ERA pays particular attention to the requirements listed in the respective
standards. The new building is planned to be EMAS & HOE certified.

() Subject to resource constraints

ANNEX VI. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 101

--- Page 104 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex VII. Building policy — year 2025

A.1. Current building(s)

Table 29 - Current building(s)

| __ Surface Area(inm?) | Area (inm                                                         Rental contact

Building name                     :                                                                                                                                              Breakout       Conditions
Location                                                                                                     js                                      reakou'
and type                                         Office space                      Total          Rent (€/year)     Duration of the                         clause      attached to the
contract                                             breakout clause
Y/N          a        A
(if applicable)

Host country
(grant or
support)

1 |ERAHQ           ESG          5,250 m?                     5,250 m?         546620286 | 1yearwithtact | oficerenial                                                no
一一一        59307 Valenciennes, FR                                                             renewal
Lille Office                                                                                                                                                         meeting
2 |-Espace          Boltoulsaclcelasss. | apap                     68,50 m?         13865.00€ | Until 31/12/2026 | __ premises                                                 no
7         59000 Lille, FR
International                                                                                                                                                        rental
Parking des
3   Tertiales -SPL | Rue du Fer a Cheval, 59300                                    100 parking        26 250.00 €       1 year with tacit    wert atngynevil                                                 ho
Valenciennes      Valenciennes, FR                                                       places                                      renewal
Stationnement
5 318.50 m? +
2               2
Total                                                                  5317m       1.50 m? | 1 00 parking      586 7365.28€

Notes:

1. ERA HQ (Valenciennes): ERA is the only tenant in the ERA HQ building, the Agency exclusively occupies and uses all office and non-office spaces in the building. Therefore, all surface area is included under the 5.250 m?
of office space (SHON, terraces are not considered).

2. Lille Office - Espace International (Lille): ERA shares office spaces with the building landlord (CCI de Région) on the 2" floor. Following the signature of the addendum n°7 to main Lease contract that entered into force
as of 01/04/2024, the leased total office space is reduced to 68.50 m? for a lease yearly fee of 13 865.00 €, where the “quote-part des parties communes’ is 2.04%. ERA has an exclusive use of the “office space” (7) of the
67.00m’ considered in the rent, the remaining 2.04% included under “non-office” (”) are shared with the landlord and other tenants.

A.2. Building project in the planning phase

Due to the growth of the Agency, the current building in Valenciennes does not offer any longer the required conditions to accommodate staff and activities related to the Agency's role
as railways’ Authority. Therefore, the Agency has re-allocated the majority of staff members in double office spaces as a short-term solution. Another short-medium term solution is the

("!) The net office space being used exclusively by the Agency, namely the reception, cafeteria, meeting rooms, offices, circulations, storage / technical rooms, copy corners inside ERA closed space.
后 Toilets / sanitary installations, storage / technical rooms and circulations located outside ERA closed space and being shared with other occupants, including building common areas located on the ground floor main reception (parking places are
not considered).

102 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 105 ---
implementation of teleworking up to the limit set by the Management Board Decision on
Teleworking.

In parallel, as part of a long-term solution, the Agency and Valenciennes Métropole have
started defining the requirements for a new building to accommodate ERA activities after
2028 by means of a Study composed of different phases. In 2018, the Phase | of the Study
confirmed that the current ERA HQ cannot accommodate all requirements related to the
Agency activities and growth.

In 2019 and 2020, the Agency has managed to complete the Phases 2 and 4 of the tech-
nical and functional study resulting in the approval of the technical specifications that will
be used as the base for the selection of architects in the Phase 3 of the Study.

Taking into account the experience gained during the pandemic with large-scale tele-
working and new ways of working, the building capacity was revised, and the technical
project adapted.

The main objective for the Agency during 2021 was to prepare the technical and financial
dossier to be formally addressed to the EU Budgetary Authority for the approval of the
New ERA building project.

In 2022, the Agency clarified with the DG MOVE, the EU Budgetary Authority, the steps
related to the procedure to be followed to have the project formally approved. On the
31/10/2022, a letter was sent to the EU Budgetary Authority with the file as part of the
Early information procedure under Article 266(2) of the Financial Regulation resulting in
the presentation on the 17/11/2022 of the ERA project to the Committee on Budgets in
Brussels, where it was noted that the file submitted by ERA was very comprehensive and
clear. Following the exchange of views held in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets,
some follow-up questions asked by Members during the discussion were sent to ERA. At
this stage, the EU Parliament confirmed that the procedure “Information préalable” can be
considered as closed.

In 2023, Valenciennes Métropole decided to transfer the building project to the “Banque
des Territoires” that will launch the Call for Architects during Q4 2023 - Q1 2024 with the
purpose to be able to draft a Rental Lease Agreement proposal. However this option was
abandoned in Q4 2023 due to the higher costs presented by the “Banque des Territoires’.
In the meantime, ERA restarted the negotiations directly with Valenciennes Métropole and
reached an agreement on a Rental Lease Agreement proposal.

A.3. Building projects submitted to the European Parliament
and Council

ERA presented the building project to the Budget Authorities who gave their agreement
in April 2024.

One aspect to be clarified in time is the funding of the new rental lease as the decision
falls under the next Multi-Annual Financial Framework as the new building will only be
available in 2028 at the earliest.

ANNEX Vil. BUILDING POLICY - YEAR 2025 | 103

--- Page 106 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex VIII. Privileges and immunities

The Management Board approved the proposed Headquarters (or Seat) Agreement between the Agency and the host Member State without objections or negative votes in August
2018. (”*) The Seat Agreement between the French Government and the Agency has been presented as draft legislation to the French National Assembly on 7 July 2021 (’4) and has been
adopted and promulgated on 31 January 2022. The final text of the Seat Agreement can be found here (”). The following table presents the privileges granted to the Agency's staff: (’°)

Table 30 - Privileges granted to staff

The Agency's headquarters are located in Valenciennes and Lille. The French authority
pledge to provide the necessary support to ensure the location of the Agency's
headquarters will remain unchanged. (Art. 3)

The Agency's premises are inviolable, exempt from perquisition, requisition,
confiscation or expropriation. No French authority can enter the building without

the prior agreement of the Executive Director. The property and assets of the Agency
cannot be subject of legal measure of constraint without the authorisation of the CJEU.
(Art. 4)

The Agency's archives and all official documents are also inviolable. The Agency will
benefit from the same treatment the French Government provides to diplomatic
missions when it comes to official communication. No restriction can be placed on
neither official communication addressed to the Agency or a member of its personnel,
nor on any communication emanating from the Agency. In addition, the Agency shall
have the right to use codes and to dispatch and receive official correspondence and
other official communications by courier or in sealed bags which shall be subject to
the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and bags. (Art. 5)

The Agency is entitled to display the flag of the EU, as well as its own on its premises
and vehicles (Art. 6)

加

Pi
Protocol of privileges and immunities / diplomatic status

leges granted to staff

The HQ Agreement differentiates statutory staff (officials, TAs, CAs) and external staff
(SNEs, experts, trainees, interims). (Art. 1).

The privileges and immunities provided for the statutory staff aim to guarantee their
independence and the unimpeded functioning of ERA. The Executive Director and the
statutory staff (Art. 10):

enjoy immunity from jurisdiction, even after the termination of their mission, in
respect of acts carried out by them in the exercise of their functions

* are exempt from national taxes on earnings, salaries and respective supplements
paid by the Agency

enjoy the exemption for themselves and their spouses from measures restricting
immigration and from aliens’ registration formalities;

* enjoy the same privileges in respect of currency and exchange regulations
comparably to those accorded to staff of international organisations

enjoy the right to import duty-free their furniture and personal effects at the time
of first taking up their post in France and the right on the termination of their
functions in France to export free of duty their furniture and personal effects,
subject in both cases to conditions considered necessary by the French authorities
* Enjoy the right to import duty-free their private car acquired whether in the country
of their last residence or in the country of which they are nationals, bound by the
single market rules. They also enjoy the right to export it duty-free, subject to the
conditions considered necessary by the French authorities;

https://www.era.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/decision/decision_n180_headquarters_agreement_between_agency_and_host_state_en.pdf

¢

Assemblée Nationale : https://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/textes/I15b4323_projet-loi | Sénat : https//www.senat.fr/dossier-legislatif/pjl21-288.htm|

https:///www.assemblee-nationale fr/dyn/15/textes/115b4323_accord-international.pdf
http://www.senat.fr/rap/121-365/121-365 1.html

9

104 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

Education /
day care

No provision
in the
headquarters
agreement.
Please refer
to Annex V.
E. Schooling
for further
information on
education.


--- Page 107 ---
The Agency, its assets, income and other properties, shall be exempt from all direct
taxes. The Agency is also exempt from indirect taxes and duties included the price

of movable and immovable property and services, acquired for its official use and
involving an expenditure of at least €150. The exemption may be granted by way of a
refund. The Agency shall also be exempt from all custom duties and any other taxes for
all goods intended for official use, as long as this exoneration is foreseen in the EU or
national legislation. (Art. 7-8)

Finally, the Agency is entitled to register three vehicles with diplomatic plates. (Art. 9)

Pi

Have access- along with their family members - to access without discrimination
compared with French citizens to all public services provided on French territory,
including medical services, education, childcare, and housing.

leges granted to staff

The French Government will deliver to all members of the Agency's personnel (expect
those who have the French nationality or permanent residency) a special residency
document identifying them as member of the Agency's personnel. The Agency will
ensure that once an employee leaves the Agency, its residency document is handed
back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also facilitates
the issuance of those residency documents and work authorisations to the family
members of all the Agency's personnel, expect those who have the French nationality
or permanent residency (Art. 11 (1, 2)).

The French authorities will take all necessary measures to facilitate the entry, stay, and
departure of experts in missions for the Agency on the French territory. Necessary visa
sand authorisations will be delivered for free as quickly as possible (Art. 11 (2, 4)).

In addition, the Executive Director and the statutory staff are exempt from any
compulsory national social security system. External staff, SNEs, and their family
members, subject to their coverage in their own country of citizenship, are also exempt
from any compulsory national social security system. (Art. 12)

ANNEX VIII PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES | 105,


--- Page 108 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex IX. Evaluat

ONS

The Agency has a system in place to monitor its performance and formalise an evaluation
of the results achieved in the year into the SPD dashboard, as an ongoing tool, as well
as through the Consolidated Annual Activity Report, which focuses on the achieve-
ments of indicators and targets set out in the SPD.

The following instruments are used for collecting the data and for triggering actions:

Work progress reports, filled in by projects and service managers reporting the
status of projects and services against the relevant plans, budget and human re-
sources allocation, including SPD targets.

Budget execution monitoring, a continuous activity based on a daily automat-
ed report fed with SUMMA data, displaying the level of appropriations, commit-
ments and payments to date for each budget line and for each project/service

Monthly management monitoring reports, analysing and reviewing staff
allocation, budget execution and risks/issues at project/service level

Monthly budget review meetings with the Management Team to analyse the
data from the budget execution monitoring and take timely decisions for deploy-
ing / redeploying the resources. The redeployment of resources is brought to the
attention of the Management Board for information if the transfers are within one
title or between titles but below the 10% threshold or for decision if the transfers
are between titles and above the 10% threshold

IMCS, part of the internal monitoring programme aimed at verifying that pro-
cesses, projects, services and products comply with internal and external require-
ments, including.

IAS audits
ECA audits

Non-Conformity register, where deviations from the relevant rules and provi-
sions are recorded

All the sources listed above allow the Agency governance bodies, namely the Manage-
ment Team and the Management Board to monitor continuously the functioning of the
Agency. In order to allow this, the Agency has developed a performance dashboard
which is turning the data into meaningful information.

The dashboard provides figures, charts and visuals about:

Human resources (incl. information on statutory staff members, geographical
and gender balance)

Budget management (Revenues and Expenditure, with a breakdown to
budget titles of budget envelope/appropriation and paid amounts to date)

Authority tasks (incl. the number of SSC/VA/TA applications received, number
authorisations/certifications issued to date, planned and actual hours per au-
thorisation type)

rojects and services (incl. Budget and FTE planned vs. actual, status traffic
ights with information on red status, overall cost analysis)

Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) (recruitment status, SAP policy priorities, SAP
milestones, budget execution)

Audits (status on open recommendations)

106 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 109 ---
Terminology

The following terms are used in the SPD - in accordance with the Commission guideline
on evaluation:

Strategic Statement (”) is a coherent area of action with objectives and resources. It is
the basic building block for the structure of the annual Work Programme, distinguishing
between operational activities — directly related to the mission and core tasks of the agen-
cy, and horizontal/ cross-cutting activities - carried out to support operational activities
and staff.

Objective describes what the agency wants to achieve either in the short or long term.

Indicator is a characteristic or attribute that is measured regularly in order to assess to
what extent an objective has been met.

Baseline is the point of reference against which achievement or progress towards objec-
tives is measured.

Milestone is an intermediate target set, expressed in quantitative or qualitative terms,
measuring progress towards the achievement of long-term objectives.

Target is the ultimate desired situation, quantified and timed.

Inputs are the human and financial resources used and the time required to produce
outputs.

Actions are the work carried out over a certain period of time, consuming resources and
producing outputs in accordance with the objectives set.

Outputs are what is directly produced or supplied through the agency intervention. They
often relate to the expected deliverables of the intervention and are identified based on
its operational objectives.

Outcome is the envisaged medium to long term effects of a programme or policy out-
put. While its results are not easily foreseeable and might not be entirely in the sphere of
control of the Agency, the outcome represents an intermediate medium-term step be-
tween the agency’ outputs and longer-term societal impacts. The Agency has structured
its multiannual work programme according to desired outcomes to ensure all of its out-
puts will contribute positively to its vision & ambition.

Results are the direct effects of intervention(s) on the target groups.

Impacts are the indirect or long-term effects of an intervention on the EU or global socie-
ty that are, at least partly, expected to be influenced by agency’s interventions.

(Referred to as “Activity” in former SPDs

ANNEX IX. EVALUATIONS | 107,

--- Page 110 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex X. Strategy
for the organisational
management and
internal control
systems

|. Context and background

To fulfil its mandate, the Agency relies on a robust internal control system that ensures
its operations are efficient, transparent, and aligned with EU Financial Regulations. This
strategy outlines how Agency's internal control framework (ICF) supports its mission, en-
sures compliance with financial and regulatory standards, and mitigates risks that could
jeopardize the achievement of its objectives.

In recent years, the Agency has undergone several key transformations that impacted its
internal control environment:

® Transition and implementation of the new corporate financial tool for managing
transactions. The new financial tool allows for better tracking of commitments,
payments, recovery orders, improving budget management and reducing the like-
lihood of errors. However, the shift to this new system requires strong controls to
ensure smooth integration, including staff training and system testing to prevent
disruptions.

™ The Agency is a recipient of grants from the European Commission (EC),
which are used to fund key projects aimed at improving railway safety and inter-
operability within the EU (including candidate countries). Managing these grants
requires adherence to strict financial and operational rules, as well as robust inter-
nal controls to ensure that funds are used efficiently and in line with their intended
purposes. The receipt of grants imposes additional responsibilities on the Agen-
cy to ensure compliance with grant conditions and EU financial rules. Enhanced
monitoring and reporting mechanisms, particularly through the new IT financial
tool, will ensure that grant funds are tracked and used effectively. Ex-ante and ex-
post controls will play a crucial role in verifying compliance with grant require-
ments and preventing misuse of funds

® Revision of the Antifraud strategy. Recognising the evolving risks, particularly with
regards to cyberthreats, the antifraud strategy has been tailored to address the
Agency's specific operational environment, which includes regulatory powers
with significant decision-making authority. It emphasizes the need to protect the
integrity of its processes, especially in light of the growing reliance on digital sys-
tems and external stakeholders.

® Gradual introduction of a new strategy/approach for ex-ante and ex-post controls
considering the above changes. The approach emphasises a risk-based approach
to control, where high-risk areas receive greater scrutiny. This allows the Agency to
focus its resources on the most critical areas while ensuring compliance with EU
Financial Regulations.

108 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 111 ---
Il. Objective

The objective of the strategy is to establish and maintain a robust internal control system
that ensures the effective, efficient, and economical use of resources while safeguarding
assets and ensuring compliance with the Agency's mandate and ERA Financial Regula-
tions. This strategy is designed to mitigate risks that could hinder the Agency from achiev-
ing its regulatory and operational objectives, particularly in light of new developments
such as the introduction of a new IT financial tool, the revised ex-ante and ex-post control
strategy, and the updated antifraud framework

Ill. Scope

The strategy covers all financial, operational, and administrative processes within ERA, en-
suring that activities align with ERA financial rules and the Agency's regulatory framework.
The scope includes:

® Financial transactions: all financial activities, including the management of grants
received from the EC, procurement, payments, and budgeting.

™ Operational processes: processes related to Agency's core activities, including pol-
icy and authority tasks, and the integration of new technologies.

™ Compliance and risk management: ensuring that the Agency complies with appli-
cable rules and regulations, while effectively managing risks through a combina-
tion of ex-ante and ex-post controls.

™ Fraud prevention: addressing potential conflicts of interest, ethical misconduct,
and cybersecurity risks through the revised antifraud strategy.

While the internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance, it cannot
eliminate all risks due to inherent limitations. These include the complexity of EU regu-
lations, external factors beyond Agency's control (e.g., economic shifts, political chang-
es), and the reliance on accurate data input from external stakeholders. Additionally, the
transition to new financial and operational systems requires time for full integration and
optimization, and temporary inefficiencies may arise during this process. it cannot com-
pletely eliminate the risk of error, fraud, or inefficiency. It is designed to mitigate these risks
to acceptable levels, considering cost-effectiveness.

IV. Key actors dealing with internal control

Effective internal control within the Agency is a shared responsibility involving multiple
key actors:

™ Management Board: Represents Member States and institutional stakeholders,
overseeing internal controls, risk management, and the achievement of strategic
objectives. It plays a key role in approving budgets and plans, ensuring the overall
governance of the Agency.

® Executive Director (ED): As the Authorising Officer (AO), the ED is ultimately re-
sponsible for the implementation and functioning of the internal control frame-
work. The ED sets the organizational tone, ensuring that internal controls support
Agency's strategic goals and compliance with regulations.

® Heads of Units/Department (AODs): As Authorising Officers by Delegation
(AODs), heads of units (HOU) are responsible for ensuring that internal controls are
effective and efficient in their respective areas. They must monitor risks, implement
mitigating actions, and ensure adherence to internal control processes.

® Manager of Risk Management and Internal Control: This middle manage-
ment position occupied by the HoU CAP oversees the internal control framework

ANNEX X. STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 109,

--- Page 112 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

and risk management processes, ensuring accurate reporting and implementa-
tion of control measures. This role is also key in facilitating the risk management
process across the Agency.

= Accounting Officer: Certifies the year-end accounts, providing reasonable assurance
that ERAs financial records present a true and fair view of the Agency’s financial situation.
The accounting officer ensures compliance with accounting standards and financial regu-
lations.

= Internal Audit Service (IAS): Conducts independent assessments of Agency's internal
control systems based on a three-year audit plan. The IAS provides recommendations for
improvement and ensures compliance with EU regulations.

= European Court of Auditors (ECA): Perform independent audits of ERA’s financial
transactions and accounts, ensuring legality, regularity, and proper use of funds.

< All ERA Staff: Responsible for adhering to internal controls within their specific func-
tions. Staff are expected to report any deficiencies or irregularities, ensuring compliance
with policies and contributing to a culture of integrity.

V. Overview of main controls in place for the five control
components of the ICF

The ICF is structured around five key components, each supported by specific control
measures that align with the recent developments in IT, risk management, and fraud pre-
vention.

1. Control Environment:

™@ Tone at the top: The ED and middle management promote a culture of accounta-
bility, ethical behavior, and transparency. This is reinforced through policies such as
the Antifraud Strategy and the ethical framework.

® Ethics and Integrity: The updated antifraud strategy focuses on managing conflicts
of interest and promoting high ethical standards. All staff must submit declarations
of interests, and mandatory ethics training is provided.

® Organisational structure: Clear lines of responsibility are established, with delega-
tion of powers for executing the budget detailed in internal procedures.

2. Risk Assessment:

The Agency has developed a risk management framework that identifies, assesses, and
mitigates risks across all areas of its operations. The Agency maintains a corporate risk
register that is regularly updated to reflect new and emerging risks. Risk management
processes are embedded within Agency's operational activities, including financial man-
agement, project implementation, and regulatory oversight.

™ Risk Management framework: the Agency conducts risk assessments at the pro-
ject service level as well in other specific areas such as IT, sensitive function. Most
significant risks are recorded in the corporate risk register, assessed both at inher-
ent and residual levels to ensure the effectiveness of controls.

四 otrategic and operational risk monitoring: the Manager of Risk Management and
Internal Control ensures continuous monitoring of risks, focusing on key areas
such as regulatory compliance and financial management

3. Control Activities:

Control activities are designed to manage risks and ensure compliance with key objec-
tives, including the legality and regularity of transactions, sound financial management,
fraud prevention, reliability of information, and safeguarding of assets.

110 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 113 ---
™ Ex-ante and ex-post controls: the new strategy ensures that preventive measures
are taken before transactions are finalized (ex-ante) and that compliance and ef-
fectiveness are reviewed after the fact (ex-post).

® Financial Circuits: financial and budget procedures detail steps for implementing
financial transactions, the roles and responsibilities within financial circuits, and the
checks to ensure legality and regularity.

™ Corrective/Preventive Actions: When systemic issues are identified through ex-
post controls or audits, corrective actions are taken, such as revising procedures
or retraining staff.

4. Information and Communication:

Information related to internal controls, risk management, and financial transactions is
communicated to relevant staff through regular briefings, training sessions, and internal
reports:

™ Integrated reporting system: A monthly report provides management with up-
to-date information on project progress, budget execution, risks, and corrective
actions. This system is connected to the new IT financial tool- SUMMA, ensuring
accurate and real-time data reporting.

™ Budgetary status reports: regular budget reports offer a detailed view of budget
execution by unit and fund source, aiding in performance monitoring and early
identification of budgetary risks.

™ Statement of assurance: The E) is responsible for providing a statement of assur-
ance, ensuring that all information regarding financial management and internal
control is reliable, comprehensive, and complete. This is supported by reports from
the internal audit function, risk management assessments, and updates from the
accounting officer

5. Monitoring Activities:

ERA continuously monitors the implementation of its internal control strategy through
various mechanisms:

® Audit Results: IAS conducts audits based on a multi-year plan, providing independ-
ent assessments of the internal control system. External audits are performed by
the ECA and other external bodies, focusing on financial compliance and the le-
gality of transactions.

™ Recommendations follow-up: ERA closely monitors the implementation of recom-
mendations from internal and external audits, ensuring that corrective actions are
completed within agreed deadlines.

® Nonconformity analysis: Instances of nonconformities are analyzed to identify root
causes and prevent recurrence. Corrective measures are taken as necessary to
strengthen the control environment.

™ ICF assessment: ERA produces an annual assessment report on the effectiveness
of the ICF. The report is based on control activities, audits, and the outcomes of
ex-ante and ex-post reviews. All the internal control components and principles
must be present and functioning well at all levels of the Agency to be considered
effective. The results of the assessment are reported in the CAAR.

Through this comprehensive strategy, the Agency aims to maintain a high level of trans-
parency and accountability, ensuring that it can continue to meet its objectives while
safeguarding against financial, operational, and reputational risks.

ANNEX X. STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 111

--- Page 114 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution, or
service-level agreements

Table 31 - Grant, contributions, or service-level agreements

General information                                                               Financial and HR impacts

Grant Agreements

1. IPA Il (2023/450-                                         36 months                        EU support on transposition and         Amount (EUR)        427,500        22,500           0            0
269)                           19/12/2023        450,000 | 01/01/2024 - | DG NEAR         implementation of the EU railway        Ne of CAs                  0.5              0.5              0.5            0
31/12/2026                acquis by ERA (ERA / IPA Ill / 1)        Ne of SNEs
>. EUMedRail                                                 96 months                         Implementation of the action             Amount (EUR)                                             0            0
(ENV201 6/359-727)        31/12/2016      2,000,000 | 01/01/2017 - | DG NEAR         EUMedRail - EuroMed Rail Safety and | N° of CAs                                                        0              0
31/12/2024                            Interoperability Project                        Ne of SNEs

Amount (EUR)                                                0             0
Total Grant Agreements                                                                                                                                                 Ne of CAs                       .                    I                 0.5              0

Ne of SNEs

Contribution Agreements

iL, Sysienn lle                                          45 months       mo          Provide a financial contbution re       Amount (EUR)        205,550         0 (中            0           0
'                                                             DG MOVE       nance the implementation of the

eee oer       /2         750000 | 16/07/2021 -    SRD3              action ERA support to the Railway        Ne of CAs                    3              15(”)             0              0
                                     01/05/2025                System Pillar                      Ne of SNEs

2. Technical support                                                                                                                      Amount (EUR)        600,000           0              0            0

to Railway safety and                                            12 months                           Technical support on the deployment | Ne of CAs

interoperability in         02/09/2024       600,000 | 01/07/2024- |DG REFORM _ | of the European Rail Traffic

Greece (REFORM/                                                30/06/2025                           Management System in Greece           Ne of SNEs

1IM2024/019)

四 There is an ongoing amendment, which should be finalised by Q4 2024. The number will evolve accordingly.
©) Ibid

112 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 115 ---
Date of
signature

3. Pilot project - Single
European Railway
Area - Prototype

Corridor Munich-
Verona (MOVE/
C2/SUB/2022-499/
S12.903563)

Total Contribution Agreements.

Service-Level Agreements

16/10/2023

Z amount
(EUR)

General information

Duration | Counterpart          Short description

Support the generation of knowledge
and invaluable lessons with the goal
of accelerating the completion of

the Single European Railway Area,
in particular for the Rhine Alpine rail
corridor between Munich and Verona

30 months
31/10/2023-
30/04/2026

DG MOVE

Amount (EUR)
Ne of CAs

395,250      395,250

Ne of SNEs

Amount (EUR)          1,200,800
Ne of CAs                    3
Ne of SNEs

395,250 (*°)          0             0
15 (*)             0             0

Amount (EUR)
1.NMA                                                                                                                                                        Ne of CAs
Ne of SNEs
Amount (EUR)               0                   0                   0                0
Total Service-Level Agreements                                                                                                                        Ne of CAs                    0                                  0             0
Ne of SNEs
Amount (EUR) 1,628,300 417,750 (*)         0             0
Total                                                                                                                                                         Ne of CAs                 3.5             2°)            0.5            0
Ne of SNEs                一               一              一            一
的 There is an ongoing amendment of the System Pillar contribution agreement, which should be finalised by Q4 2024.The total will evolve accordingly.
A om
© thd
©) Ibid.

ANNEX XI. PLAN FOR GRANT, CONTRIBUTION, OR SERVICE-LEVEL AGREEMENTS | 113

--- Page 116 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Annex XII. Strategy
for cooperation with
third countries and/
or international
organisations

Since the adoption of the existing strategy for global cooperation (together with SPD
2018), the Agency has been updating and aligning the scope of work in order to best
address the priorities listed by the European Commission in this field, namely:

The EU transport policy aims at promoting greater development and stability in the neighbour-
ing countries, enhancing connectivity with the neighbouring areas and towards Asia, and cre-
ating a level-playing field for international rail transport and the rail supply industry beyond EU
borders. The Commission welcomes Agency's aspirations to provide technical support at Com-
mission request. The Commission reminds that the main priorities as regards rail international
cooperation fall into EUS neighbourhood, strategic partners and high growth economies be-
yond neighbourhood, and international organisations. Agency’ international activities should
not go beyond.

114| EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 117 ---
Annex XIll. Procurement plan

Table 32 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2025

Procurement of datasets for economic analyses including impact
Railway economic data sets                                  assessments, ex-post evaluation, reporting on progress with safety and             Qi            30,000.00 €                   Direct contract
interoperability as well as upcoming studies

Prepayment Stand space InnoTrans 2026                In order to secure the stand space, it is booked and paid n year -1.                   Qi           28,000.00 €                  Direct contract

FWC for technical assistance in the ERTMS unit:

* Support to cover the needs for ERTMS expertise on analysis of ESC

Technical Assistance to ERTMS Unit                             reduction;                                                                                         Ql            120,000.00 €               Framework Contract

* Support for ERTMS activities to be executed under Grant Agreements
(Greece) - support to ERTMS staff in assessments.

Table 33 - Planned use in 2025 of existing ERA framework contracts

FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS

To be committed in 2025(estimated)

ERA 2021 02 FWC-01          Consultancy support on Vehicle Authorisations applications                                                        06/01/2026                             350,000.00 €
ERA 2021 21 FWC 01         Fournitures objets promotionnels                                                                                   10/08/2026                            10,000.00 €
ERA 2022 02 FWC 01          Development of training products for the EU agency for railways knowledge hub                            31/08/2026                             154,500.00 €
ERA 2022 05 FWC-01          Technical assistance to ERTMS trackside approval                                                                       21/05/2027                               34,500.00 €
ERA 2023 01 FWC-01         Interpretation services                                                                                                24/07/2027                           100,000.00 €
ERA 2024 11 FWC-01         ESISDID                                                                                                                 02/09/2028                          1,490,500.00 €
ERA 2024 19 FWC-01         ESP-EISD7                                                                                                                  31/07/2028                           1,100,000.00 €

ERA 2024 20 FWC-01          Event management services                                                                                               18/08/2028                             565,000.00 €
TBD (*)                          Catering services                                                                                                             31/12/2028                              35,000.00 €

的 The FWC call is being finalised in Q4 2024, the local identifier is therefore not yet available.

ANNEX XIII. PROCUREMENT PLAN | 115,

--- Page 118 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Table 34 - Planned use in 2025 of existing inter-institutional framework contracts

FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS

ESMA 2022 02 ICT CONSULTANCY        ESMA 2022 02 ICT CONSULTANCY

SIDE Ill DPS                                SIDE Ill DPS

DGIT SLA                                          DGIT SLA Appendix A-9

Travel Agency - PMO (°°)                   Tender procedure PMO/LUX/2024/0P/0004

18/10/2026
14/09/2027
No end date
31/12/2028

To be committed in 2025(estimated)

970,000.00 €
207,000.00 €
250,000.00 €
100,000.00 €

DG COMM (°)                               COMM/2024/01/00XX Thematic Comm Services

(©) This FWC is not yet signed but the Agency plans on participating in 2025.
的 Ibid

116 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

31/12/2028

100,000.00 €

--- Page 119 ---
Annex XIV. Strengthening
Action Plan

A.1. Context

In 2022, the Agency's Management Board adopted the Strengthening Plan prepared by the Agency in close cooperation
with the European Commission. The purpose of the Strengthening Plan is to make the strongest possible case in order
to strengthen the Agency with resources matching the level of ambition necessary for achieving the important
EC policy objectives for rail, in an effective and efficient manner, and benefit from high levels of ambition and
efficiency within ERA’s structure and methods.

With the document serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the Agency received a proposed
increase of 12 TAs in 2022. While the additional TA allocation is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening
Plan (12 TAs proposed out of the 22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed with the imple-
mentation of the Strengthening Plan.

A very important challenge is represented by the fact that the additional TA allocation needs to be fully covered under
the existing subsidy envelope. To make best use of this TA allocation and considering the external constraints related to
the indexation of salaries and prices, the Agency is making a thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these costs in
a sustainable manner until the end of MFF 2021-2027. Several measures are envisaged, such as the time-phased hiring of
the TAs. The budget constraint on the subsidy side is therefore an element to be properly monitored and managed for the
whole remaining period of the current MFF.

The current document describes the plan of actions which the Agency will put in place in the period 2023-2027 in order
to implement the Strengthening Plan, taking into consideration the level of additional staff allocation proposed by the EC.
It is hereinafter referred as SAP (Strengthening Action Plan) 2023-2027. This builds on actions already taken up to present
to increase the efficiency of the support services and tools.

A.2. What we want to achieve

ERA has established an outcome-driven framework, placing strong emphasis on effectiveness (i.e.“doing the right things’),
in line with the prioritisation of activities included in the Strengthening Plan. In parallel, a delivery structure based on pro-
grammes has been established. Outputs of programmes are followed up and measured using a dashboard approach.

With the Strengthening Plan, we will implement a series of improvement actions that should enable to achieve the most
appropriate outcomes with the resources available. This is important not only to justify the additional resources requested
by the Agency, but also in order to demonstrate that European taxpayer's money is used in the most effective way, so that
the European railway system can develop towards attractiveness, efficiency, and sustainability.

Improvement actions will be assessed according to their impact as well as ease of implementation. Quantitative targets
are defined (mainly related to the respective FTEs) and followed up/measured on a regular basis. The baseline is ERA SPD
2022, and the monitoring tools are ERA SPD Portfolio Management together with the SPD Dashboard developed already.

A.3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and targets
The SAP 2023-2027 mirrors the Strengthening Plan and translated it into concrete actions. It is based on the planning
and monitoring framework and enablers already set up by the Agency, which includes:

— the multi-annual planning in the SPD, with a clear focus on the intervention logic;

— the Agency's performance dashboard, including reporting to the EB and the MB

— the regular budget execution monitoring and reporting

— the Consolidated Annual Activity Report.

ANNEX XIV. STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 117

--- Page 120 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

The annual work programmes will therefore be aligned to the priorities listed in the SAP.
which represents an anchor for the multi-annual planning in what the priority policy areas
are concerned. A direct tracking of SAP-related FTEs, outputs and targets will be includes
in the SPDs.

The SAP 2023-2027 is organised along the following components/objectives:

a) Drive an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by proportional out-
puts and outcomes, including efficiency gains

b) Maintain proper resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

c) Ensure a reduction in the Agency's administrative FTE allocation while maintaining
regularity and legality

d) Ensure the overall projected FTE evolution by 2027

e) Ensure effective and efficient budget management (planning and execution), ap-
propriate risk management

A.3.1. Ensure an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by propor-
tional outputs and outcomes, including efficiency gains

Note: In addition to the balanced input/output ratio for the priority areas, efficiency gains are
also embedded and measured with the same indicators. The latter represent the delivery of rel-
atively more (ambitious) outputs for the same amount of effort compared to previous years.

118 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 121 ---
A1. Ensure proper
input/output for NSA
monitoring

A2. Ensure proper
input/output for
NoBo monitoring

A1.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A1.2. No. of NSA audits
performed per year (*)

A1.3. Proper learning from the
NSA monitoring

A1.5 Observation of NSA
supervision activities (*°)

A1.6 "Monitor" NSAs in EU
accession countries (synergies
with IPA grant and TCT) after
IPA countries accession"

A2.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A2.2. No. of NoBo audits
performed per year (full
monitoring cycle in 3 years =
20 NoBos/year) (*)

A2.3. Learning from NoBo
monitoring

Pg code

ERA1224

ERA1224

ERA1224

2022

baseline          2023 (87)        | 2024 |

462

401

8-9

4.93

Follow-up of
deficiencies ensured

Pilot during the 2nd
year of the 2nd cycle

6

Follow-up of
deficiencies ensured

To be included in
the NSA monitoring
service, when
relevant

Dissemination at
RISK, NB Rail plenary,
NSA network,

EA (European
Accreditation),
workshops, webinar

Target

5          5

9

Report on findings
from second 2nd
NSA monitoring
cycle delivered to
MB Report

20

Optimised scope
implemented

20

Optimised scope
implemented

20

的 For 2023 we work with the assumption that all 12 additional TAs are distributed across the priority areas; however, a correction factor (0.5) needs to be applied to the additional TA work capacity hired in 2023 (in terms of FTE), which corresponds to
the late hiring during the year. The numbers included in the 2023 column are already calculated with this correction factor.

€) This indicator captures the speed of progress with organising the NSA audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.

(@) Not to replace the NSAs supervision, but to assess the performance of NSAs while carrying out supervision activities (e.g. follow up type 3 issues by concerned NSAs)

©) This indicator measures the speed of progress with organising the NoBo audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 119,


--- Page 122 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

J mon | tenor | Paco |

A2. Ensure proper
input/output for
NoBo monitoring

A3. Ensure proper
input/output for the
ERTMS and radio
communication
evolution

A4. Ensure proper
input/output for the
TSls related work

A2.4 Anew common
framework for NoBos, DeBos
and AsBo assessment and
monitoring set up by the
Agency (new legal base may
be needed)

A2.5 “Knowledge hub" to
promote best practices and
train NoBos (widening it to EU
accession countries)

A3.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A3.2. CCSTSI - Maintain and
enhance CCS framework

A3.3. Support for the EU-wide
deployment of ERTMS, (e.g.
by CINEA)

A3.4 CCSTSI Maintenance
and operational activities for
CCS Framework

A3.5 review of ESC/RSC and
roadmap for reduction

A4.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A4.2. Lessons Learned
implemented in CCM process

A4.3. TS! Programme
implementation

AAA. CR Unique
Authorisation

ERA1218

ERA.1175

120 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

2022
seline

10.35

45

First concept drafted

11.22

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

ESC/RSC roadmap
proposal

5.94

Harmonised
CCM process
implemented

Implementation
proposal

Final draft agreed
with EC as a basis for
a future legislative
proposal

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed
Publication of CCS
TS! Application
guide
CCSTSI Article 12
- analysis delivered
according to the
deadline set in art.
12 CCS TSI

7

Specific Cases for
Coaches

Target

To be started at the
end of the 1st NoBo
audit cycle.

13

CCS TSI change
requests developed
from EC-mandate
according to plan
Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

roadmap
implemented as
planned

100% EC requests
considered by ERA
and allocated to a

CR workflow

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed

roadmap
implemented as
planned

100% of CRs created
for the TSI revision
package 2026
closed

2027

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed


--- Page 123 ---
A4.Ensure proper
input/output for the
TSls related work

AA.5.TSI- programme
implementation

A4.6. CR Standards

A4,7. CR Platform/Train
interface

AA8 CR Noise of parked
trains

A4.9. Energy measurements
A4.10. CR RIV/Dangerous
goods

A4.11.CCM ready for
processing System Pillar input

A4.12. EN standard
management

A4.13.TSls as global
standards

A4.14. Support to EC (TO/
Advice/Derogations/ NoBos)
delivered according to the
procedure

A4.15. Increased
harmonisation of operations
- define new structure for TS!
OPE

A4.16 CR on Rear-end signal
A4.17. TSI Dissemination
Workshops

All new EN referred
to in TSI analysed

CCM ready by end
of Q2

International
Strategy - 1st Draft

100%

New structure/

approach defined/
agreed

closed

4

TO EN updates
Closed

Closed
Closed
Closed

CCM implemented
for all requests

Provided

International
Strategy - Final

100%

New TSI OPE
structure finds
general acceptance
(strategy paper
development on
restructuring)

Target

Progress report
to RISC at June
meeting

50% of the
mandatory
references of EN sin
TSl's assessed

100%

Proposal for new

TSI OPE structure

submitted to EC
and WP

50% of the
mandatory
references of EN sin
TSl's assessed

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 121

2027

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure


--- Page 124 ---
A5.Ensure proper
input/output for the
clean-up of national
rules (°')

A6. Ensure proper
input/output for the
CSM ASLP work
stream (2

Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

J maton | tenor | Poco |

AS5.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

AS5.2. NRs to include in TSls

A5.3. Increased performance
of and trust in MS as control
level - Manage NSRs cleaning-
up process 2.0 (compliance
with TS! OPE 2023, incl.
impact of TO, if relevant)

ASA. Increased performance
of SMS - draft new regulation
for harmonisation of Type 5
NSR

A6.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A6.2. Management of the
Group of Analysts (GoA)

ERA.1172
ERA-PRG-006

ERA.1219
ERA1226

35

CRs introduced

Project finalised
(through agreement
with MS and/or the

issuing of TO)

Draft new regulation

4.18

GoA meetings
chaired

33% CRs Closed

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

Draft new regulation
and develop
guidance/ training

55

Implementation

of GoA workplan

during CSM ASLP
phase |

100% of the VA NRs
Positively assessed
by end 2024 to be
transferred into TSls
CRs
100% of SRD
notifications
assessed with TO
when relevant
respecting the
ERA Regulation
deadlines

45

At least 1 steering
committee meeting
organised & 5
subgroups and
plenary meetings

100% CRs created
for the TSI revision
package 2026
closed

100% of SRD
notifications
assessed with TO
when relevant
respecting the
ERA Regulation
deadlines

Deliver training ()

5.5

At least 1 steering
committee meeting
organised & 5
subgroups and
plenary meetings

2022                                                                            get
4.28                 736                         78                         78                         78                         78

100% of SRD
notifications
assessed with TO
when relevant
respecting the
ERA Regulation
deadlines

Deliver training (3)

5.5

At least 1 steering
committee meeting
organised & 5
subgroups and
plenary meetings

(!) In 2023, the Agency and the EC are putting together a practical implementation plan to address the acknowledged need for harmonisation in assessing and cleaning all the categories of rules (vehicle, Fl, safety/operational). Once agreed, the
milestones of this plan will be reflected in an update of the indicators for SAP 2023-2027 and SPD 2024, respectively.
() To be delivered through ERA1249

@) Ibid

的 It is important that a dedicated source of funding be identified for the business description and the setting of the ISS tool, as well as the support for the Group of Analysts; in the absence of that, the outputs of the work from the CSM ASLP work-

stream risk to be lost.

122 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027


--- Page 125 ---
A6.Ensure proper
input/output for the
CSM ASLP work
stream

A6.3. ISS development (1)

A64. ISS development (2)

A6.5. ISS development (3)

A6.6. CSM development

A6.7. Support to CSM
ASLP and ISS customers to
populate and consume data

A6.8. CSM guidance/ training

FAQ based on the

implementation of
the CSM developed.
Operators voluntarily

implementing the

CSM identified,
questions collected,
answers drafted and
published.

Technical Opinion
on Annex | updated
according to the
lessons learned

Target

Report on the
machine to
machine pilot for
data exchange
with national/
company systems,
including Agency
recommendation for
future development
Assessment of the
solution to allow
accurate and full
data history (who
changed what and
when in the data)
Formal publication
of a legally valid
Ontology for CSM-
ASLP
Publication of
first version and
maintenance of
mandatory Technical
Documents,
including support to
ISS development
80% of answers
delivered in 10
working days

First version
guidance available
and presented by
GoA working groups
for approval

80% of answers
delivered in 10
working days

Training delivered

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 123

2027

80% of answers
delivered in 10
working days

Training delivered


--- Page 126 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

J mon | tenor | Paco |

A7. Ensure proper
input/output for the
digitalisation of
Agency's registers

A6.9. GOA/JNS

A7.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A7.2. Migration plan for the
individual registers to a linked
data approach, including

the standardization of
terminology through the ERA
terminology

A7.3. Migration of registers to
a knowledge graph approach
(no code needed anymore)

A7.4. Progress with the
specifications for multi-leg
ticketing

A7.5. Agency becoming a
registration entity for vehicles
at EU level

A76. Exploratory work for
Eurocontrol for railways,
including the traffic
management and economic
regulation aspects

ERA.1227
ERA.1226 (**)
ERA-REC-122

2022
seline

3.44

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

732

Draft migration plan
prepared

Proposal for EC
decision sent

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

Migration plan
finalised, based on
legal requirements.
and business cases

25%

Specifications
finalised

Workflows put in
place accordingly

Draft concept paper
developed and
discussed with EC

Target

Normal: one normal
procedure (‘cross
wind") completed

Fast track: 1 fast
track procedure
completed

6.22

100%

的 ERA1226 is included in the services contributing to the policy goal specifically through their workstream on digitalisation, excluding the daily running of the registers.

124 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

Normal: one
normal procedure
completed

Fast track: 1 fast
track procedure
completed

5.5

2027

Normal: one
normal procedure
completed GoA

Fast track: 1 fast
track procedure
completed

5.5


--- Page 127 ---
A.3.2. Ensure sustainable resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

Target
2023                               2024                               2025                               2026                               2027

B1.1. No. of FTEs allocated VA excluding CTT          117               117               117               117               11.7
B1.2. No. of FTEs allocated VA CTT.                               5                          48                         48                         45                         45
B1.3. No. of FTEs allocated SSC                              5.2                      5.1                       49                      48                      48
B1. Ensure sustainable resourcing   B14. No. of NES allocated ERTMS TA        ;              1.51                      15                      14                      14                      14
for the authority tasks           Be eens allocated to authority         75%               75%               75%               75%               75%
B1.6 Overall FTEs redeployed from
authority to policy areas - cumulative                     -3,87                        -4.21                         -4.51                         -4.91                         -4.91
values compared to 2022 baseline (9)
B2.1. Internal mid-term review of the matrix          ，             ，                           1
ae            ，           ，                   Mid-term review      Follow-up actions
organisation supporting authority tasks                erformed           implemented
B2. Ensure a Ist review of the        (including AD/CA/AST split)                               p                            P
authority related processes           B2.2.List of identified improvements for a                                         ，            ，                                                                          ，            ，
1                                       List consolidated                                                                 List consolidated
ture aa iremIanianupstiie to lz Previdsd                             and shared with EC                                                       and shared with EC

A.3.3. Ensure a reduction in the Agency’s administrative FTE allocation

Note 1: This objective is referred to the administrative FTE allocation but encompasses a wide scope (e.g. redeploying administrative posts to operational activities, redeploying technical staff who
currently cover administrative tasks to operational tasks activities).

All references are to FTEs (not posts) to allow for counting savings and/or redeployments which account for partitions of one FTE.

Note 2: The sequencing is thought as follows:
i. Creating the capacity of potentially free FTEs through process leaning, including automation - as such, this does not account for a materialised saving, but is a pre-condition (step
C2)
ii. Identifying the opportunities to materialise that capacity — this can happen at contract end points (step C3)

iii. Having the FTEs freed from administrative work needs to be followed up by their actual redeployment in operational areas (step C4)

(9) This reflects the re-visited assumptions for the use of ERA FTEs for VA, SSC, ERTMS TA compared to 2022 and also embeds a component of efficiency gains through simplification/automation of processes.

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 125

--- Page 128 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

jet
A                                             Indicator
2023            | 2024            2025                        2026                        2027

C1. Process/deliverable/job
related workload analysis

C2. Creating room for
administrative FTEs capacity

C3. Materialising the FTE
capacity gained

C4. Redeploying the capacity
to operational activities

C5. Overall FTE target part
C (non-cumulative annual
targets)

C1.1. Workload analysis for all processes
(operational and support) based on a
consistent methodology

C1.2. Workload analysis at job level

C2.1. % of previously documented
processes leaned, including through
automation (*”)

C2.2. % of newly documented processes
leaned by design, as part of the Agency's
management system linked to ICF

2.3. No. of FTEs saved by leaning
secretarial, HR, IT, financial services

and administrative functions linked to
operational work

C24. No. of FTEs saved from optimising
the Agency's portfolio (clustering P/S into
Pq's, resorting to off-the-shelf IT products
etc)

3.1. No of administrative FTEs not
replaced (e.g. after retirement, invalidity
procedure, leaving the Agency etc.)

C4.1. Training programme for the
Strengthening Plan put in place as part of
the Agency's Learning and Development
plan

(42. No. of administrative FTEs retrained
through the SP training programme,
redeployed to operational activities

4:3. No. of technical FTEs directly
redeployed from administrative tasks

to technical work without the need for
training.

() Baseline should be defined as a first step.

126 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

Delivered
Draft

20%

100%

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Set up

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Finalised

20%

100%

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Maintained

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

-1.25

20%

100%

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Maintained

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Updated

20%

100%

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Maintained

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

20%

100%

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below

Maintained

Part of overall target
below

Part of overall target
below


--- Page 129 ---
A.3.4. Ensure projected FTE evolution by 2027

Indicator
| za |            2024                       2025                       2026                       2027

D1.Control the FTE |D1.1.No.ofadditional FTEs deployed to policy

trend evolution by       priority areas - cumulative values compared to 2022              +11.23                      +17.92                      +15.82                      +14.10                      +14.10
2027                        baseline (based on part A above)

D1.2. No. of FTEs redeployed from authority to policy

tasks - cumulative values compared to 2022 baseline               -3,87                        -4.21                         -4.51                         -4.91                         -4.91

(based on B1.6 above)
D1.3. No. of FTEs gained through efficiency measures

— cumulative values, calculated based on the annual                -0.5                         -1.75                        -2.25                        -3.25                        -4.25
values from C5 (89)

D1.4. Re-assessment of the additional FTE needs for                                  Prepared and agreed

policy activities                                                                                          with EC

D1.5. Gate way review of the targets                                                                        Done                                                          Done

D1.6. Input provided to EC for the next MFF

negotiations / any future Railway Package                                                                                                                            Provided

A.3.5. Ensure effective and efficient budget management

Action                                        Indicator
2025

E1.1. % of subsidy appropriations committed              Min. 98%             in. 98%            Min. 98%            Min. 98%            Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1           Max. 10% for T1           Max. 10% for 71           Max. 10% for T1           Max. 10% for T1
E1. Effective budget
management

E1.2. % of carry forward to the next year                           Max. 20% for T2           Max. 20% for T2           Max. 20% for T2           Max. 20% for T2           Max. 20% for T2

Max. 30% for T3            Max. 30% for T3            Max. 30% for T3            Max. 30% for T3            Max. 30% for T3
E1.3. Salary gap structurally addressed                                      一                           Done                         Done                         Done                         Done

E2. Efficient budget | E2.1. Real term savings in the support expenditure

9                                                                    9                                  9
management        (IT, FM)                                                                  2%                 2%                 2%                2%

的 This trend is based on the assumptions on FTE evolution for authority tasks as listed in line B1,6. Should the trend evolve in another direction, there will be a need to revisit the targets for B1.6, C5 and D1.1 in a coordinated manner.

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 127

--- Page 130 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

A.4. Governance and monitoring arrangements

The SAP 2023-2027 is endorsed by the Management Board and steered by the HoU CAP
under the coordination of the ED.

A dedicated Task Force is put in place for the period 2023-2027 to support the Action Plan
implementation, composed of:
™ HoU CAP (Oana Gherghinescu)

™ CAP team members (Thomas Willems, Koen Favyts, Marta Lenarcik, Andrei Lixan-
dru)

™@ A representative by unit, selected and nominated by the corresponding Hou, fol-
lowing an internal call for expression of interest (organised in Sep 2022)

Heads of Units/Heads of Departments will be accountable for their respective contribu-
tions. The involvement of the individual members in the Task Force is envisaged on a part
time basis, in addition to their daily tasks at the Agency.

Regular reporting is envisaged as follows:

® Internal regular iterations with the Agency's Management Team

™@ A dedicated section will be set up as part of the SPD Dashboard to monitor the
progress of the indicators listed in Chapter 2 of this document, by year of reference

™ The SPD Dashboard is presented at every regular EB and MB meeting, which offers
the possibility to MB members to regularly monitor the progress with the action
plan implementation

™ Agate review with the Management Board can be envisaged every two years to
make the necessary updates to the Action Plan, depending on the evolution in the
internal and external context of the Agency.

® Annual reporting as part of the CAAR

Synergies with the Better Together and the HR strategy work streams will be carefully en-
sured by the Task Force.

A.5. Risks

The following risks are identified and assessed according to the matrix below:

Very likely
Likely

Likelihood of         A
Possible
consequence

Unlikely

Very unlikely

Negligible | Minor    Moderate | Significant    High

Impact

They will be monitored and addressed as part of Agency's risk register.

128 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 131 ---
Budget related

The Agency is carefully monitoring the budget execution to strike the
optimal use of the existing resources in the spirit of sound financial
management, while flagging early warning signals in case of subsidy
gaps. We will react by an agile approach, having reserve lists in place
but only conclude employment contracts when the budgetary means
are available.

1. The Agency might not be in the position to hire all 12 TAs in 2023 due to subsidy constraints. The
inflation trend poses significant pressure on the Agency's capacity to cover the salary costs in the
absence of sufficient additional EU subsidy.

2. The revenues from Fees and Charges are not under the full control of the Agency. In particular,
the volume of work can fluctuate due to seasonal trends during the year, but also more structurally,
upwards (e.g. the need for re-certification following DAC deployment, go-everywhere trains etc.) or
downwards (e.g. starting with the second round of safety certification for the same RU at ERA, the
complexity of the issues and checks might drop compared to the first round).

Human resources and internal communication related

Risk assessment                      Mitigating measures

3. The changes in the working patterns, together with the financial consideration for hiring at lower
grades, might limit the attractiveness for the specialised technical jobs offered by the Agency in
the future. This might hamper the business continuity, talent pool retention and by consequence,
Agency's capacity to deliver the technical outputs envisaged in this plan.

The Agency will indeed tackle this aspect with attention, by
highlighting and supporting the opportunity of ensuring career paths
from administrative tasks to operational tasks. Natural end-of-contract
gate reviews will be used.

4. Inherent internal communication sensitivity around the choices made as part of the action plan
(non-replacement, redeployment etc.). In addition, given this internal redeployment, the pressure on
legally binding administrative tasks will increase exponentially.

Output related

Risk assessment                      Mitigating measures

5. With insufficient additional resources for the policy tasks, up to the full level of the need, the
Agency might not be in the position to support the EC in responding to all standardisation areas
linked to innovation over the next years. The allocation of additional resources might need to be
reopened during the lifecycle of this Action Plan to identify priority areas for which the Agency's
involvement is further expected.

6. Considering the complexity of the training program which could help redeploying administrative
staff to operational tasks, it might have a limited buy in and/or efficiency and could require a period
of time for completion which goes beyond the timeline of the Strengthening Plan.

ANNEX XIV, STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN | 129,

--- Page 132 ---
Multi-annual programming 2025-2027

Other
Risk assessment                                     Mitigating measures
7. In 2021, the Agency received a grant for its System Pillar workstream. While the grant provides                                  Ensuring a multi-annual continuity of the contribution agreement and
the Agency with 3 FTEs to cover for this work until May 2025. In the absence of an extension,                                        an internal coordination of the system pillar work directly linked to the
there is a risk of business continuity for this stream of activities.                                                                               Railway System activities (ERTMS, TSls, Safety).

130 | EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS. SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2025-2027

--- Page 133 ---
Getting in touch with the EU

In person

All over the European Union there are hundreds of Europe Direct centres.
You can find the address of the centre nearest you online
(european-union.europa.eu/contact-eu/meet-us_en).

On the phone or in writing

Europe Direct is a service that answers your questions about the European Union. You can
contact this service:

=- by freephone: 00 800 67 8 9 10 11 (certain operators may charge for these calls),

at the following standard number: +32 22999696,

— via the following form: european-union.europa.eu/contact-eu/write-us_en.

Finding information about the EU

Online

Information about the European Union in all the official languages of the EU
is available on the Europa website (european-union.europa.eu).

EU publications

You can view or order EU publications at op.europa.eu/en/publications.
Multiple copies of free publications can be obtained by contacting Europe Direct or your
local documentation centre (european-union.europa.eu/contact-eu/meet-us_en).

EU law and related documents

For access to legal information from the EU, including all EU law since 1951 in all the official
language versions, go to EUR-Lex (eur-lex.europa.eu).

EU open data

The portal data.europa.eu provides access to open datasets from the EU institutions, bodies
and agencies. These can be downloaded and reused for free, for both commercial and
non-commercial purposes. The portal also provides access to a wealth of datasets from
European countries.

--- Page 134 ---
European Union Agency for Railways
120 rue Marc Lefrancq

BP 20392

FR-59307 Valenciennes Cedex

Tel. +33 (0)327 09 65 00

era.europa.eu
Twitter@ERA_railways

Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe railway
system without frontiers.

EUROPEAN

Publications Office

UNION                                                 of the European Union
AGENCY
FOR RAILWAYS

