
--- Page 1 ---
UIC
WORK

PROGRAMME
2025

2025


--- Page 2 ---

--- Page 3 ---
UIC

WORK
PROGRAMME
2025-2025

INTERNATIONAL UNION

--- Page 4 ---
INTRODUCTION BY
KRZYSZTOF MAMINSKI,
UIC CHAIRMAN

Rail must play a leading role in the decarbonisation
of transport sector at global and regional scale. It’s
the most and the only sustainable mass transport
that is currently ready to address our climate
related challenges effectively. Therefore, it needs
to be placed right at the heart of development of
future mobility and global logistics chains.

In order to make it happen, the railway community
needs to intensify its efforts to further promote the
clear advantages of rail through public discourse
and make it more attractive and competitive in
both the eyes of present and potential users as
well as all decision-makers.

We want more people to travel by train, more
companies to move their goods by rail and more
people to consider a career in the industry.

However, we also need to show the potential of rail
ready to compete with other modes of transport.

There is a lot of work ahead of us to release full
railway potential. We need to improve our cost
effectiveness through digitalisation and innovation,
resolve problems with interoperability and capacity
constraints, and most of all we need to invest in
modern infrastructure and rolling stock.

“THE NEEDS OF THE
REGION’S MEMBERS [...]
REMAIN MY ABSOLUTE
PRIORITY.”

--- Page 5 ---
As Chairman of the UIC, | am committed to work
with our European members and other world
regions to ensure that rail plays and will play an
important global role in securing transport sector
sustainability and in achieving the abovementioned
climate and environmental goals.

Therefore, the supra-regional development of
railways has special meaning and importance to me.
It not only allows for tackling climate challenges
globally, hence contributing to a brighter future for
all the world’s societies and our planet, but also, if
well managed and adequately financed, railways
can become an important element of social policy
- an effective tool to increase citizens’ mobility,
eliminate various types of social exclusion, and
facilitate access to the labour market and public
services.

Railway needs a realistic vision supported by
effective tools for its delivery. Whether it is creation
of a coherent global rail network with seamless
goods and passenger flow through its corridors,
further digitalisation and standardisation, or fast
and efficient modernisation through innovative
solutions, UIC is the optimal cooperation platform
for sharing global ideas and developing common
tools to make it all real

Rest assured that the needs of the region's
members and development of interregional
cooperation remain my absolute priority and |
am deeply convinced that our new UIC Work
Programme 2023-2025 will play a crucial role in
releasing development and innovative potential of
the railway sector on a global scale.

--- Page 6 ---
INTRODUCTION BY
FRANCOIS DAVENNE,
UIC DIRECTOR GENERAL

The railway sector is entering a crisis and emergency period.

A crisis period, because the challenges we have had to fight
over the last three years with the Covid pandemic, followed by
the Ukrainian crisis, which in turn has highlighted the fragility
of energy supply chains, have shown that the assets we may
have thought impossible to call into question are fragile. It will
therefore be necessary in the future to think in an uncertain
universe and to be ready to help our members in the resolution
of unexpected crises.

An emergency period because we know that the climate
issue is urgent. The IPCC report! of April 2022 tells us that we
need to implement a clear break with the practices and habits
of the transport sector if we want to achieve the objectives of
the Paris Agreement?. We only need to look at the gradient
of the curve that is compatible with the Paris Agreement
1.5° objective: it requires an inflection so rapid that it is only
compatible with a strong acceleration of the modal shift
towards rail transport, public transport and active mobility.

1. www.ipec.ch/report/ar6/wg2
2. www.un.org/en/climatechange/paris-agreement

The International Energy Agency analysis shows that traffic
must shift from road and aviation to rail this decade in order
to reach the Paris Agreement objectives. Despite stagnating
at around 8%, rail’s market share needs to grow by more than
40% in less than a decade.

Projected global GHG emissions from NDCs announced prior to COP26 would make it likely that
warming will exceed 1.5°C and also make it harder after 2030 to limit waming to below 2°C.

0      于                                         60
Wt
ae |

|

a                       ji
HEB Trend from implemented policies                                              iplemented by the end of 2020,         98"
EB Limit warming to 2°C (>67%6) or retum warming to                                        OP 26,                          75

1.5°C (>50%) after a high overshoot, NDCs until 2030                               its                   Median

SS Lit warming to

> Limit warming to

= Nos prior to COP26,
including conditional elements

50%) with no or ited overshoot

‘eset Past GHG emissions and uncertainty for 2015 and 2019
(dot indicates the median)

te Jem

© vuli

--- Page 7 ---
The combination of these two constraints means we must
succeed and succeed quickly.

In the next three years, the European Union has taken a strong
initiative in favour of the railway mode with the creation of
Europe’s Rail®. 1.2 billion euros will be spent over the next seven
years to rapidly advance the sector to meet the challenges it
faces. Obviously, the objective of modal shift must begin to
be pursued resolutely without waiting for the implementation
of these technical breakthroughs, which for the most part
will not arrive until 2030. However, these innovations must be
part of the roadmap that we must draw together.

From the UIC’s point of view, we must therefore proceed with
a dual alignment

From a technical point of view, the ERJU (Europe's Rail
Joint Undertaking) roadmap must serve as a reference
point for projects developed within UIC, while preserving
the association’s ability to operate on an international level.
It is therefore not a question of limiting ourselves to the
developments that are underway within ERJU, but of making
it an anchoring point to continue to focus UIC’s activity on
subjects that have a strong added value for our members.
Throughout this Work Programme 2023-2025 we will use the
following typology:
> Projects that are within the scope of ERJU and for
which UIC support is necessary, such as FRMCS (Future
Railway Mobile Communication System) and DAC (Digital
Automatic Coupling).
>» Projects outside the scope, but which are necessary to
develop a rail offer for a new transport paradigm, such as
OSDM (Open Sales and Distribution Model) and the digital
platform for freight.
> Regional work programmes that will allow the deployment
of structured training actions, the study of use cases
adapted to local contexts and the dissemination of
innovations conducted by UIC all over the world.

3. rail-research.europa.eu/about-europes-rail/

From the point of view of sector advocacy, the Manifesto*
that we adopted in July 2022 will be the basis for the future
UIC action plan. The document deliberately calls for a global
paradigm shift, with the collaboration of all transport modes,
to put energy efficiency at the heart of transport policies.
Over the next three years, we will need to unite our energies
to create a global coalition where we can work with rail
operators and manufacturers, public transport operators, road
transport operators and associations to design a concrete
path to a desirable frugal future.

The ability to finance this shift will also be a new priority for
UIC. We are faced with a new challenge: the decarbonisation
of the transport sector can only be achieved through massive
investment in infrastructure and rolling stock to develop the
modal share of rail. This investment will of course have to
come from public authorities, but also from the private sector.

In particular, it will be necessary to progressively make people
accept the need, at both the European and global levels, that
climate finance, carbon offsets, as well as a significant part
of the carbon tax, must be reinvested in the realisation of the
necessary capacity to carry out a new transport paradigm
around rail and public transport.

“IT WILL BE NECESSARY IN
THE FUTURE TO THINK IN
AN UNCERTAIN UNIVERSE
AND TO BE READY TO
HELP OUR MEMBERS IN
THE RESOLUTION OF
UNEXPECTED CRISES.”

4. uic.org/IMG/odf/uic-manifesto_rail-solutions-for-a-better-future.pdf |
www.youtube.com/watch?v=RIQZkWZFFlw


--- Page 8 ---
10
14
18

21
25
29
33
37
4

46

46
48
49

52
56

56
58
58
59

UIC MEMBERS AROUND THE WORLD

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

Regional roadmap for Africa
Regional roadmap for Asia-Pacific
Regional roadmap for Europe
Regional roadmap for Latin America
Regional roadmap for Middle-East
Regional roadmap for North America

SUSTAINABLE CARBON FREE TRANSPORT

Strategic objectives of the sustainability platform
Position vs ERJU
Participation in the regional strategy

TOWARDS DIGITAL RAILWAYS

TOWARDS A SHARED RAILWAY SYSTEM
Strategy & main deliverables

Position vs ERJU

Development of UIC documents
Participation in the regional strategy

--- Page 9 ---
62

62
64
65

68

68
70
71

74

74
75
75

78

78
79
79

82

82
83
84
85

UNLOCK MULTIMODALITY FOR PASSENGERS

Strategy & main deliverables
Position vs ERJU
Participation in the regional strategy

INCREASING RAIL FREIGHT MODAL SHARE

Strategy & main deliverables
Position vs ERJU
Participation in the regional strategy

CONTRIBUTING TO THE FUTURE OF SAFETY
AND OPERATIONS

The main outcomes of the Operations Sector & Safety Platform

Participation in the regional strategy
Position vs ERJU

ENHANCING SECURITY

Strategy & main deliverables
Position vs ERJU

Participation in the regional strategy

EFFICIENT AND TRANSPARENT MANAGEMENT

Finance

Quality
Communications
Human Resources


--- Page 10 ---
UIC MEMBERS
AROUND THE
WORLD

214

Members

95

countries

3,000

billion passenger-kilometres

10,000

billion tonne-kilometres

1

million kilometres of line

7

million rail personnel

137

UIC working groups

70

UIC partnerships

50

UIC events per year

The boundaries, names and designations used on
the map do not represent an official UIC position on
the legal status of any country or territory or the
delimitation of its boundaries.

January 2023

--- Page 11 ---
UIC MEMBERS AROUND THE WORLD


--- Page 12 ---
STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS

Share, Open, Connect

Promote rail transport globally
Highlight and demonstrate the attractiveness of

the railways                                                                                                                                                      PROMOTE
+ Implement ambitious regional work programmes                                                     0 ]      RAIL TRANSPORT
+ Become a recognised training hub

GLOBALLY

Create a network of structuring framework
agreements with international institutions at the
European and global levels

Further develop UIC as the technical platform to address
members’ needs

FURTHER DEVELOP VIC                                                             + Achieve a shared system vision
AS THE TECHNICAL                                                             。 Document and update UIC specifications, guidelines and

BUATRCRMIICIADD BESS)                                   Monitor implementation and added! value of UIC products

;                                                   jonitor implementation and added value o
MEMBERS’ NEEDS                                                                       Leverage data and sharing of experience
Increase significantly the level of technical activities globally

Create innovation through projects
+ Draw a path for the digitalisation of the sector
Implement a global innovation strategy in
each region

Accelerate innovation by taking into account
operational constraints

Be part of public innovation programmes at
the European and global level

03  CREATE INNOVATION
THROUGH PROJECTS

Promote sustainable, carbon-free transport

+ Strengthen the role of modal shift in transport
policies

+ Advocate a change of paradigm with public
transport and supply chain stakeholders

+ Make rail projects eligible to green finance products

PROMOTE
O4     SUSTAINABLE,
CARBON-FREE

TRANSPORT

Efficient, transparent management for the

benefit of our members                                                                                               EFFICIENT,
+ Ethical and transparent governance                                                                                TRANSPARENT
+ Regular reporting and ongoing assessment
of added value from activities                                                                                                      MANAGEMENT FOR THE
* Ongoing skills development                                                                                   BENEFIT OF OUR
+ Provide the Regions with a vehicle for                                                                                          MEMBERS

project development

--- Page 13 ---
STRATEGIC

OBJECTIVES


--- Page 14 ---
STRATECIC OBJECTIVES

UIC is entering the second phase of development
of its strategic objectives. The 100m General
Assembly did not wish to change the five key
focus areas, considering that they had given the
Association a positive general orientation and
generated concrete developments. Moreover,
even if substantial progress has been made in
positioning UIC as the technical organisation of
reference for the railway sector, much remains to
be done, in particular to strengthen UIC’s position
in Europe, while giving real scope to regional
activities

The updated strategic objectives reflect this
ambition.

UIC published its “Vision of Rail 2030 - Design
a better future on December 2021: adaptation
to climate change is becoming a major concern,
shared worldwide, and the urgency of which has
just been recalled by the IPCC®. All the Multilateral
Development and investment banks, including the
World Bank, are now aligning their portfolios with
the Paris Agreement and transitioning to become
clirnate banks.

5. uic.org/IMG/pdf/uic-design-a-better-future-vision-of-
rail-2030.pdf

6. “Climate Change 2021 - The Physical Science Basis -
Summary for Policy Makers” by Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) - Published in August 2021

The European Investment Bank (EIB) published
its “Climate Bank Roadmap 2021-2025”’ and the
European Commission published its ambitious
plan “Fit for 55” Plan for a green transition®. Private
investment funds are also growing their sustainable
finance borrowing as high GHG emitting industries
become higher risk investments.

The only frugal, low greenhouse gas emitting mode
of transport capable of supporting these strong
ambitions is rail.

7. “Climate Bank Roadmap 2021-2025” by EIB - Published in
November 2020

8. “Fit for 55” European Plan for a green transition - Published by
the European Commission in July 2021


--- Page 15 ---
As a result, UIC will notably encourage, through
its “Vision of Rail 2030” and the “More Trains”
campaign, the allocation of funds to invest in the
improvements of multimodality, infrastructure,
rolling stock and services, as well as innovation
to decarbonise operations, in order to drastically
increase the number of trains, the number of
passengers and freight carried worldwide.

Furthermore, UIC will develop railway training
courses linked to its strategic areas in order to
support its members in all regions.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

There is a need to rethink learning strategies to
develop the skills of staff and to attract the talent
of the future. A flexible, well-trained and motivated
workforce is key to a competitive and innovative
sector.

To this end, several types of training will be proposed
with the establishment of a UIC Rail Academy
distance learning platform in partnership with a
recognised academic institution. This objective
is to quickly offer the rail sector an express route
to upskill staff, enabling them to confidently face
the challenges ahead. In this way, UIC wishes to
extend the rail sector's capacity for innovation and
improve the sector's competitiveness by making
full use of the knowhow of its rail experts. UIC will
go on supporting regional training centres and
create synergies between them in order to meet
the specific needs of members in the regions within
a common framework.

Finally, the Talent and Expertise Development
Platform will see its organisation change in 2023
in order to address the new challenges and
solutions for learning, development and training
technologies.


--- Page 16 ---

--- Page 17 ---
NEW REGIONAL

STRATEGY


--- Page 18 ---
NEW RECIONAL STRATECY

Since the first 2020 - 2022 Work
Programme, all the UIC regional
coordinators have tried to give more
concrete content to the activity of
the regions with more ambitious work
programmes. It is a question of giving
more concrete expression to UIC.

UIC’s specific roles and responsibilities
started in 1922 with the idea to give
to the sector a common technical
framework.

During its 100 years of productivity, UIC
produced a valuable asset of technical
specifications and guidelines for the
railway community.

Accessing this legacy and participating
in the new developments are the main
interest when engaging with UIC. In this
context clarifying the exact role of UIC
is paramount for each of the regional
strategies.

It can be summarised in the following

“\V/-cycle” diagram, which is quite classic

in the manufacturing world. Thus, UIC is

present:

> Upstream, at the inception of the
concept of operations and the defi-
nition of requirements (functional or
technical),

> Downstream, at the system verifica-
tion and validation stage, for mainte-
nance, and for preparing operational
solutions adapted to innovations.

SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDISATION

Cooperation between IMs, RUs, manufacturers,
wagon keepers, and other ECMs

CONCEPT OF
OPERATIONS

IMs, RUs, keepers

Verification and
validation

OPERATIONS

IMs, RUs, keepers

~~                              and ECMs

MAINTENANCE

REQUIREMENTS

AND FUNCTIONAL
SPECIFICATIONS

IMs, RUs, keepers

SYSTEM
VERIFICATION

IMs, RUs, keepers
and manufacturers

AND VALIDATION

- ARCHITECTURE

Standardisation
organisations

INTEGRATION
TEST AND
VERIFICATION

DETAILED
DESIGN

Time

Manufacturers

--- Page 19 ---
We have started to set up an inter-regional
exchange platform to decide on priorities
in terms of development, exchange, and
common standardisation activities.

As activity develops in Regions outside
Europe, this platform is intended to
become increasingly multilateral, as
illustrated by the figure below, and where
the ringfencing concept voted at the 99"
General Assembly (in December 2021)
copes with requirements coming from the
regional public financing instrument to

European
projects

Shift2Rail

Middle-
Eastern
projects

North
American
projects

African
projects

retain the Intellectual Property Rights within
a specific region. Today the only application
is within the framework of Europe’s Rail
Joint Undertaking (ERJU).

For the 2023 - 2025 period, as the
definition of needs in the different region
has progressed in particular through
the numerous webinars organised, the
definition of ambitious work programmes
for each region has been undertaken and
they will be implemented.

LEGEND

FQ Ringtence

Shared materials

Asian
projects

Latin
American
projects

NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

ssi

DURING THE 2023 - 2025
PERIOD:

> The membership base will
increase due to the more
ambitious and focused
activities,

> The budgets for regional
specific actions such as
training, projects and
sharing of experience, will
increase,

> Consideration will be given
to the creation of decision-
maker delegates ensuring
a permanent presence in
the most active regions to
lead the programme and
articulate regional visions.

--- Page 20 ---

--- Page 21 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR AFRICA

The consultations and high-level meetings organised in 2022 with members
(Tunisia, Algeria, Senegal) and institutions (African Union, European Union
Agency for Railways) show that there is potential and interest in jointly developing
an ambitious action programme. The Region, despite the positive prospects, is
still caught in a kind of vicious circle where the absence of a concrete project
implies a lack of efficiency and involvement of members.

The various actions carried out by the Presidency of the Africa Region and the
UIC services have led to the establishment of a new ambition for the region.
In particular, the Covid-19 crisis has enabled us to meet every two months for
African Rail Thursdays.

This paradoxical effect of a crisis has allowed us to realise that we have important
tasks ahead of us to develop rail in Africa, with four major axes:

> To succeed in the digitalisation of the African railways,

> To increase the power of the training actions and the African projects,

>» Adapting UIC technical specifications to the African context through a rein-
forced partnership with the African Union.


--- Page 22 ---
Today, 70% of the region's dues go to core fees, which limits
the interest of members to become active members and
keeps the funds available for projects to a minimum, i.e., no
more than 9OKE.

We collectively need a shock to be able to concretely
undertake the work programme which in order to reach 2026
would require about 300KE€ per year dedicated to projects.

The feasibility of such an orientation depends on the clear will
of the members to get involved to the extent that is necessary.

 Présidence Sénégal


--- Page 23 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

It is obvious that it is not realistic to move to full payment
of dues by 2023. It is therefore proposed that this level be
achieved by gradually increasing the dues of existing members.

Commitment being the key to success, under the leadership

of our Chairman and with the personal involvement of the

Director General, a task force is charged with securing the

path to the new funding scheme and project programming

with the objective of:

>» Securing the path to the new funding scheme with interna-
tional institutions such as EIB, ISDB, World Bank, etc.,

> Implementing the Work Programme,

> Ensuring the programming of projects and actions, espe-
cially training,

Ensuring a stable and committed participation of UIC
Africa members.


--- Page 24 ---
Oh Mind GR, a Pe eave

‘hege 国语   YR HLA fi


--- Page 25 ---
>

>
>

>
>
>
>
>

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR ASIA-PACIFIC

NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

The Asia-Pacific region - which is seeing large-scale economic development and,
therefore, has growing urban and long-distance goods and passenger transport
needs - has established its work programme priorities around:

Cooperating and creating partnerships with stakeholders in the region in or-
der to complement UIC’s actions,

Knowing what the members’ and countries’ needs are by improving the qual-
ity and analysis of data collected,

Monitoring and establishing railway investment projects in the region,

> Securing the path to the new funding scheme with international institutions

such as ADB, World Bank, etc.,
Sharing best practices, transferring technology, and training,

Technical advice and project reviews.

The recent work programmes were complemented by initiatives on:

Openness towards new members,

Creating new activities in the region,

Cooperating with other regions and between members,
Interoperability and connectivity along corridors,

Railway research.

The region’s new presidency from 2023 onwards will facilitate the establishment
of a new agenda for the next three years to start implementing the main goals of
the Manifesto, in line with the region’s needs.

--- Page 26 ---
Topics which have not yet received detailed attention
will be discussed or prioritised, such as future railway
telecommunications, the metre gauge, security (the Global
Railway Security Congress held in February 2023 and the
creation of a pool of correspondents from members in the
region).

The recurring theme of high-speed will continue to be explored
in the run-up to the 2023 World Congress in Marrakech and in
anticipation of the Congress in Beijing.

Finally, members will be further involved in the region's
activities by progressively increasing the portfolio and budget.
New members’ potential must be realised, while regular links
with existing members and close links with the most active
and senior members are to be maintained.

--- Page 27 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY


--- Page 28 ---

--- Page 29 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR EUROPE

Even if geographically smaller than other regions, the European Region has
the greatest number of UIC members (120 at the time of writing) these being
fairly evenly spread amongst the active, associate and affiliate categories of
membership and in every area of the Region.

The railways in the European Region have been typically the most active in
generating ideas for and enabling the funding for the annual programme of
projects. Much of these projects were spawned as a result of the publication of
the versions of the Regional Technical Strategy Europe (RTSE) and the Railway
Standardisation Strategy Europe (RSSE).

There is an appetite amongst the European members for these regional projects
to be expanded to other UIC regions and the Regional members welcome the
idea of the inter-regional exchange platform to decide on priorities in terms of
development, exchange, and common standardisation activities.

UIC has published a wide range of technical documents with the first Leaflet
having been published in 1926. Since its creation in the late 1980s, the European
Standardisation Organisation CEN_CENELEC have been offered the opportunity,
via a Technical Cooperation Agreement, to have access to these documents for
controlled inclusion of relevant text which can be used in their ENs.

CR
NO

--- Page 30 ---
@)

The Region pays particular attention to this interface so as

to ensure that opportunities are maximised, costs minimised

and that there is no unjustified duplication.

>» Building on the Region's current action plan (see image) and
in clear support of this more generic UIC Work Programme,
the development of collective and collaborative thinking on
identifying alternative sources of traction energy will con-
tinue and contribute to the overall target of net zero carbon
emissions. This will be in support of the work being undertak-
en within the Energy Sector of the Railway System Forum.

>» Advocacy towards the railways being the backbone of
sustainable mobility has manifested itself in current work-
streams for the development of freight and support by the
Region for the work of the Rail Freight Forward Alliance.

> Innovation is a clear golden topic. ERJU is covered else-
where in this Work Programme but the European Railway
Research Advisory Council (ERRAC) is fully supported by
the Region in terms of resources (Chair and Secretariat)
and a financial contribution for meetings, website, publi-
cations etc. The Region will continue to support this body.

Regional Focus 2022-2023

Standardisation          Sustainability

Energy: considering new solutions
a                                          towards zero carbon
Interface with CEN, CENELEC,
ETSI, RASCOP, ERA TWG, etc.              (battery, hydrogen, etc.)

Relationships with NSAs forAMoCs —_,ngyocacy towards ral as the

mobility

Member-focused high-
level exchanges           Cooperation

High-level exchange

.                                                European institutions &
2022: DB (16/02), PKP (06/04),       organisations (Associations (CER,

Network Rail (14/10), FSI (21/10)      EIM, RNE, UNIFE, UITP, etc.)

2023: VAYLA & VR (19/01), LDz &         GRB, EC, ERA, ERUJU, etc.)
Baltic companies (21/09)

Looking forward

Adapting to the “New Normal”

Liaison / cooperation with other
regions through the meetings of
the Regional Chairs

Communication

Promoting the elements related to
the “New Normal” and the added
value of transportation by rail

Communicating the evolution of
core topics for the region

Innovation

Monitoring progress in projects
within EU-Rail JU

Rail Freight Forward /
Digital Platform

ERRAC Governance

Engage with SEESARI and other
European Special Groups

Meetings

RAE (2)
EMC (4)
EMCA (4)
EGoA (2)

--- Page 31 ---
SEESARI (South-East Europe Strategic Alliance for
Research and Innovation) is a UIC Special Group which
reports to the General Assembly, but which has very close
ties with the European Region. This will continue to evolve.

Over the past two years a programme of High-Level
Exchange Meetings (HLEM) has been established involv-
ing companies such as DB, SNCF, IP, PKP and Network
Rail

For 2023 HLEM are being arranged in Finland (Vayla,
VR...), Germany (DB), the Baltic States (LDZ...) and Spain.
These involve a senior UIC team being in the country in-
volved and spending a full day with colleagues from the
companies concerned exchanging on a range of topics
from innovation through to sustainability and the freight
and passenger business activities.

There is a myriad of other railway-focussed associations in
Europe. UIC Team Europe has interfaces with all of them and
reports the high-level issues to the regional meetings. This is
important in order to maximise opportunity, minimise cost
and avoid unnecessary overlaps.

The Presidency and the governance College will change
at the end of 2023. The regional focus will be adapted ac-
cording to the perspectives of the new College for 2024
& 2025 taking the objectives of the UIC Work Programme
into account.

NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY


--- Page 32 ---

--- Page 33 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR LATIN AMERICA

Today the UIC members consist of two associations: the Latin American Railway
Association (ALAF) with its headquarters in Buenos Aires, and the Brazilian
National Association of Passenger Rail Operators (ANPTrilhos).

UIC was able to gain insight into their railway’s potential for development
through the visits by the Director-General and the LARA Region coordinator to
multiple Latin American countries, as well as meetings with leaders, especially
transport ministers, to take place in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil,
Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay, Colombia and Ecuador.

The meetings in Argentina brought together other potential UIC members such
as Bolivia, Guatemala, and Peru. Certain Central American countries might also
be interested such as El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Costa Rica.

Following these efforts to promote the Association, Chilean railway operator EFE
and JSC, the Argentinian National Agency of Safety will respectively become an
associate member and an affiliate member of UIC as of 2023. A large number of
potential projects have been identified where UIC can assist the members of the
region in their implementation.

To this end, in addition to maintaining the relationship with current UIC members,
UIC has hired a person in the area to work on subjects of interest to the region,
and constitute the beginnings of a UIC office there.

The region’s needs are substantial as the national networks are either hardly or
not at all connected, and there is a real lack of best practices and standards.


--- Page 34 ---
Goals for the 2023 - 2025 period include:

»

Developing a Vision 2050 for the Region to foster
the growth of rail in Latin America,

Creating a network of experts that could support an
increasing number of railway projects in the region,
Sharing knowledge from the UIC working groups
and from international standards,

Creating new group to respond to specific problems
in the regions (e.g., asset management, safety, and
environmental threats) in coordination with the UIC
Rail System Department,

Creating a working group dedicated to freight
activities in coordination with the UIC Freight
Department.

"5G - Nuevas Tecnologias
Aplicadas a los Sistemas
Ferroviarios"

JEAN-MICHEL EVANGHELOU

17.05.2022, 10:30 h Buenos Aires, 15:30 Paris

Registro

--- Page 35 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

BELHOND ANDEAN EXPLORER


--- Page 36 ---

--- Page 37 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR MIDDLE-EAST

The UIC Middle-East Region comprises around 15 members, spread across almost
all of the RAME countries, which are: Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, lraq, Jordan,
the United Arab Emirates, Afghanistan, Syria, and Israel. This is a very dynamic
region for the railway sector, with new high-speed lines and trains, infrastructure,
and services being developed. All of the countries in the region have plans for
the years to come.

Two new members will join this region end 2023: Etihad Rail from United Arab
Emirates and Oman Rail.

Incidentally, transporting goods between China and Europe via the southern
corridor, going via Iran and Turkey in particular is becoming more important.
Despite railways not being developed at the same rate across the board, given
that there are geopolitical, strategic, and financial differences between countries,
UIC has seen a resurgence of activity thanks to the leadership from the Chair and
Vice-Chairs who have given a new lease of life to the region's activities.

The regional roadmap for the 2023 - 2025 period follows the considerations
outlined in the Vision 2050 document produced by the Paris and Dubai-based
company IEC and delivered to the November 2022 RAME Regional Assembly in
Abu Dhabi.

--- Page 38 ---
The main initiatives to be carried out in
the 2023 - 2025 period are:

>» Creating a working group on goods
transport. The main points of inter-
est to be developed in the coming
years are the following:

Digitalising procedures,
The safety of goods,
Standardising rules for exchange,

Transporting containers.

了ww

Creating a taskforce on extreme
temperatures and desert conditions,
taking the inevitable effects of cli-
mate change into account which will
occur in the coming years,

30 REGIONAL ASSEMBLY

30" RE

区
be

Creating a taskforce on safety, fo-
cusing on the Middle-East,
Developing a network of security
experts, notably to address crisis
management,

Participating in a project to develop
hydrogen trains,

Creating a working group to assess
the needs linked to the development
of telecommunications,

Reinforcing training for subjects of
interest to the region. The plan is to
have a training session every three or
four months with the participation of
experts from all around the world,

MIDDLE-EAST
Wid

IONAL ASSEMBLY _
i   EAST

>» To aid the region’s development
its projects and their financing are
to be better taken into considera-
tion. In May 2022, the decision was
therefore made to slightly raise the
regional share of the regional mem-
bers’ fees to allow for new projects
to be launched after they have
been proposed during the regional
meetings.

All these projects will produce concrete
results for the RAME region and will
contribute to the cohesion of the
region’s members who will have shared
objectives.


--- Page 39 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY


--- Page 40 ---

--- Page 41 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY

REGIONAL ROADMAP
FOR NORTH AMERICA

Despite it being a very large geographic region, the North American Region
comprises very few member companies.

These members however cover the entire region as they are representative of
the largest Class 1 freight companies (AAR); the largest Pan-American passenger
company (Amtrak), the American Federal Railroad Administration (FRA),
Canada’s Railway Association (RAC), the Canadian passenger company VIA-Rail,
California High-Speed Rail Autority (CHSRA) and the Regulatory Agency for Rail
Transport (ARTF, Mexico). These form the bedrock of the region’s structure.

Amongst the topics which the region wishes to tackle in 2023 and beyond are:

>» Standards - understanding the working relationship between the AAR and
UIC publications and developing synergies,

> Sustainability - advocating the railways in the region as a significant part of
the reduction of transport carbon emissions,

> Stations - developing the station as the welcoming and SMART first point of
contact for the end-user with the network,

> Cyber Security - working with other regions to stem the impact from possi-
ble attacks,

> Safety.

Inevitably, as the Region grows its interests, there will be additions made to this
route map. There is a plan for the annual Regional Assembly in March 2023 and
for this to be coupled to a High-Level Exchange Meeting like the ones that have
been arranged in Europe.

--- Page 42 ---
On the issue of railway stations, the key
goals forthis period are to better define
the role of station managers and study
ways of improving quality with the
ambition to use the gains of the digital
revolution to improve the services to
the customer and the efficiency of the
stations.

As Stations are the gateways to the
urban public transport network and to
the long-distance rail transport, they
also play a key role in fostering modal
shift to rail.


--- Page 43 ---
NEW REGIONAL STRATEGY


--- Page 44 ---

--- Page 45 ---
SUSTAINABLE

CARBON FREE
TRANSPORT


--- Page 46 ---
SUSTAINABLE CARBON FREE

TRANSPORT

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM

The UIC Sustainability Platform of UIC provides focus and
leadership for the Environmental and Social sustainability
agenda in the global railway community. Those engaged in the
Sustainability Platform work collaboratively to both promote
and to keep railways as the greenest form of collective and
mass mobility.

The platform shares a vision of a future railway that is the
backbone of sustainable mobility. The platform is working
towards connectivity that contributes to healthy and
sustainable lifestyles and economies on every continent
- for a railway that is zero emissions, resource efficient, a
community hub, accessible for all, and is both biodiverse
and a good neighbour.

The mission of the platform is to empower the global
railway community to be a driving force in a transition
to a sustainable carbon free transport system through
collaborative knowledge and advocacy.

UIC seeks to maintain momentum and continue to deliver

breakthroughs in the following areas:

>» Raising awareness among policymakers to design policies
to incentivise rail,

> Inspiring and empowering the railway sector to become
even more sustainable,

>» Advancing innovation in the railway sector,

>» Attract investment into railway projects,

> Collaborating with and engaging civil society representatives.
This is achieved through:

>» Conveying the positive environmental & socio-economic
externalities from rail investment,

>» Showcasing leading solutions and approaches,

>» Demonstrating the growing ambition and action to drive
more ambition,

>» Demonstrating how railways are a critical mobility com-
ponent for climate action

The activities of the Sustainability Platform align to three key strategic objectives:

ADVOCATE                                CONVENE                                  SOLVE

To build collaborative partnerships
and be the voice of the global
railway community to advocate for
a multimodal vision of sustainable
mobility with rail as the backbone

To provide a trusted platform
for the railway sustainability
community to connect

fa

To provide practical solutions
for sustainability challenges
for a future railway

©


--- Page 47 ---
ADVOCATE

Communicate

Leadership

Each year there will be a strong presence at the
COP (28, 29 and 30) and key regional climate
weeks. We will coordinate the global voice
of rail and facilitate opportunities for leaders
in our members to share their ambitions and
stories of success at this global event.

“More Trains” campaign will evolve with new
regional focus, for COP28 the Middle-East
will take focus.

The Sustainability Task Force will refresh
membership and continue to work glob-
ally with senior rail leaders to promote
Sustainable transport and advocate for the
role of railways in a sustainable economy.
The taskforce will facilitate an annual London
School of Economics keystone project to
support the “More Trains” campaign.

CONNECT

Engagement

Recognise

We commit to organising the _ first
“Sustainability Action Week” in 2023 and plan
to conduct this event every two years. The aim
is to create inspiring and energising events
and achieve alignment and synergy between
the technical specialists working in sustaina-
bility. This will include the UIC Railway Noise
Days which aims to promote cooperation
between acousticians and track engineers to
solve noise problems on railways.

We will continue with our long-standing
work in hosting platform and sector meet-
ings for Air quality, Energy efficiency & CO,
Emissions, Sustainable Land-Use, Circular
Economy and Noise and Vibration

We commit to recognising the efforts of
our members by organising an International
Sustainable Railway Awards every two years
(2024).

SOLVE

Global Data

Technology

Collaboration

Sustainable
Finance

SUSTAINABLE CARBON FREE TRANSPORT

With our Sustainability Reporting Tools, we
plan to continue to collect data, set measura-
ble targets, monitor progress and encourage
transparency in the sector. We will produce
an Annual Sustainability report, demonstrat-
ing the contribution that rail is making to the
UN SDGs. We will create the new sustaina-
bility reporting guidance (IRS30330) and
disseminate its helpful content globally.

The EcoTransit and Ecopassenger too! will be
updated and maintained, and we will develop
an API to expand this useful data to other
applications. The Environmental Strategy
Reporting System (ESRS) will be re-branded
and promoted to global membership. The data
will be licensed for commercial organisations
to support the maintenance of the database
and expand the use of this important data.

We will host best practice workshops and
technical meetings. We will develop and
maintain websites where the best up-to-date
information from our activities will be availa-
ble. We will create a new Sustainability hub
acting as a best practice library.

The technical departments and platforms will
work together on transversal issues such as
energy, gender equality, Infrastructure and
Interfaces with Rolling Stock, climate change
adaption and sustainable stations.

The Rail Sustainability Index will be reviewed
annually, adding new SDGs and KPls. New
modules will be considered and developed
to reflect the needs and demands of mem-
bers and partners. For example, for exter-
nal/supply chain use and projects. We will
forge links between the Sustainability and
Finance Platform, developing the capabili-
ty in Sustainable finance and agree a work
programme.


--- Page 48 ---
POSITION VS ERJU

The projects will be proposed
with reference to their
connection with the Europe’s
Rail Joint Undertaking every
time it will be possible.

Nevertheless, UIC
Sustainability technical work
will continue prioritising the
topics that are the greatest
challenges for the global
membership. We will then
showcase through our projects
how railways are increasing
their compliance with the

UN SDGs.

\. An

ri eter

d

MoreTRAINS

Global Rail Vision 2030


--- Page 49 ---
PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

Regional Meetings

Aprogramme of regional
“Sustainability Days”will be
organised to keep members
updated on all our activities，
to better understand the local
challenges and priorities and
to showcase local action and
projects.

We will support member
engagement in regional
UNFCCC climate weeks so
that they promote their stories
and plans to transform, build
resilience and decarbonise
transport in their region and
set out the key levers to
accelerate climate action.

Development of knowledge
and skills transfer

We will develop partnerships
in order to expand our
training and capacity building
capability to support our
members. We will increase
our special training activities
to support the competencies
of their employees on

key sustainability topics.

Our training will provide
knowledge development
and skill transfer for experts
working in UIC member
companies on environmental
applications.

Regional Projects

For projects with sustainability
themes across all regions, the
UIC Sustainability Unit will
provide a link to ensure that
efforts are not repeated but
strengthened and supported to
embed change in their regional
context. The Unit will support
inter-regional connections and
collaborative learning, opening
all opt-in projects and tools to
all the regions and members.

Regional partners

We will forge partnerships with
regional multilateral banks and
UN bodies.

SUSTAINABLE CARBON FREE TRANSPORT

SHARM EL-SH
EGYPT

sign g

--- Page 50 ---

--- Page 51 ---
TOWARDS

DIGITAL RAILWAYS


--- Page 52 ---
(s2)
\/

TOWARDS DIGITAL RAILWAYS

In alignment with its global strategy, UIC will keep on focusing
on all the dimensions of railway digitalisation, with two major
directions:

>»

The promotion and the dissemination of digital concepts
applied to the railways, in the frame of international and
regional actions, such as, but not limited to:

- Participation in major international events (Consumer
Electronics Show CES in Las Vegas, UIC High Speed
Congress, etc.),

- Organisation of Digital Tours with representatives from
UIC members,

- Organisation of specific regional events focused on dig-
ital, as for instance the African Digital Rail Congress (4中
edition expected in 2024);

The development of specific projects dedicated to digital
railway in which UIC can bring its specific added-value to
the benefit of its members, and this regarding different
domains:

- The technical aspects of the rail system in general,

- Passenger activities,

- Freight activities,

- And also some multi-domain digital initiatives.

yi

Among the main digital railway programmes, projects or
initiatives that UIC seeks to highlight and materially develop
in each department, platform and forum, it is essential to
mention:

>»

FRMCS (Future Railway Mobile               DS
Communication System) programme:  FRMCS
UIC is leading here the specification stream for the re-
placement and evolution of GSM-R by 5G technologies in
the short term (first pilots expected in Europe by 2026),
but is also heavily involved in the corresponding indus-
trial stream for the preparation of the FRMCS ecosystem
(5GRail project),

OSDM (Open Sales and Distribution Model)

programme: UIC will increase its activities

around international ticketing, particular-

ly regarding multimodality aspects and  OSDM
extend the opening of OSDM systems to
more distribution channels,

Digital Platform for Freight: UIC is engaged at European
level in an ambitious initiative aiming to define and put in

place a set of digital solutions to improve the commercial
context and the operations of freight,
Digital Modelling: Through its RSM (Railway   RSM
System Model) and OntoRail (Ontology for

RailSystemMODEL
Rail) projects, UIC seeks to facilitate the
convergence of the various models existing          “Te
in the rail sector towards a CDM (Common       NT
Data Model),                                 RAIL
Artificial Intelligence: UIC is also committed to this new
and complex railway challenge, with a dedicated project
focusing on the concrete application of artificial intelli-
gence for predictive maintenance, partnering railway ex-
perts with artificial intelligence specialists to learn lessons
from other sectors,

--- Page 53 ---
> OpenRail: UIC, together with three initial
members, aims to put in place the first
open-source foundation dedicated to the QPENRAIL
railway industry,

> The railway system architecture and the relevant exchange
of data for more efficient operations.

At European level, the majority of these programmes, projects
or initiatives are or may be combined with ERJU activities,
this being already the case for FRMCS and Digital Modelling

This is the intention of UIC to keep on assessing additional
synergies with the European Commission and European
railways, for instance regarding the railway system architecture,
the development of the OSDM programme, the establishment
of the Freight Digital Platform and the use cases of Digital
Automatic Coupling (DAC).

All these UIC digital activities will participate in the different
regional activities, according to adapted timing corresponding
to regional priorities and needs expressed by members.

As an example, it is clear that the FRMCS programme has
to be considered on a worldwide dimension, to be adapted
to the different regions in accordance with the members’
strategy and involvement.

TOWARDS DIGITAL RAILWAYS

$=

WORKSHOP
Future railway
telecommunication
in Asia-Pacific region

9 November 2022

--- Page 54 ---

--- Page 55 ---
TOWARDS A SHARED

RAILWAY SYSTEM


--- Page 56 ---
\

TOWARDS A SHARED RAILWAY SYSTEM

STRATEGY & MAIN DELIVERABLES

The Railway System Forum (RSF) will support the UIC
“Vision of Rail 2030” and will integrate, in a systemic
approach, major technical breakthroughs through its eight
multi-annual work programmes based on Capacity, Quality
of service and continuous improvement of railway services,
and Innovations.

Concerning Capacity, RSF will place emphasis on:
> Traffic control centres and crisis management,
>» Automation facilitating the increase in the number of
trains and supporting the cost leadership strategy:
- Digital Automatic Coupling (DAC),
- Automated Train Operations (ATO),
- Artificial Intelligence,
- Robotics,
- Automatic inspections,
- 5G evolution

Concerning Quality of Service and continuous improvement

of railway services, RSF will place emphasis on:

> Operations and safety as detailed in part 7,

> Predictive maintenance, for better reliability and availa-
bility of infrastructure and rolling stock, and better inte-
gration in operations,

> Reduction of railway noise, facilitating the acceptance of
the increasing number of trains by those in the vicinity of
the railway lines.

Concerning Innovations, RSF will place emphasis on:

> FRMCS (specifications and industrial stream) and digital
modelling, as detailed in part 2,
>» Reduction of energy consumption and emissions a Task

Force on Energy saving will be scheduled end of 2022 and
early 2023,

> Development of lighter trains,

> Resilience of railway infrastructures and rolling stock to
climate change, including design of new infrastructure
and rolling stock, more accurate weather forecasts and
operational mitigation measures,

> Acceleration of the cycle of innovation, through opera-
tional rules adapted to market uptake of innovative solu-
tions, and dissemination of innovative solutions.

The key enablers of the eight RSF multi-annual work
programmes are the following:

> The eight multi-annual Sector Work Programmes will en-
sure the structuring of the UIC technical documents. The
revision of documents on a five-year cycle, when deemed
necessary by members will be ensured together with the
publication of other appropriate UIC documents: specifi-
cations, reports and guidelines.

--- Page 57 ---
an              International

5    ‘     a             5            \    =
100! WiC? Webinar fae Ee

Assets for Automatic & Autonomous Operation

DESIGN

Atila KESKIN                            Christian CHAVANEL
Vice-Chairman of IRRB,                             Director of Railway System,
Chairman of WG 2, Manager of DATEM, TCDD                        UIC

Andreas LIPKA
Head Migration Digital
‘Automatic Coupling,
DB CARGO

Mehmet DEMIR
Consultancy Services
Director, Metro Istanbul

Umut Rifat TUZKAYA
Vice-Rector of Vildiz
Technical University

Shigeto HIRAGURI
Deputy General Director,
Research and
Development Promotion
Division, RTRI

TOWARDS A SHARED RAILWAY SYSTEM

The ERA-UIC Coordination

framework signed end of
November 2021 describes the links between documents
drafted or published by ERA and UIC documents.

It includes the ‘possibility for UIC to propose AMoCs
[Acceptable Means of Compliance] or guidelines drafted by
UIC to ERA® and the need to ‘coordinate and communicate
on the update of any ER document and UIC document”.

>» Cooperation with relevant Universities and Research
Centres will be developed.

9. ERA-UIC Coordination Framework signed on 29 November 2021 -
Article 4.1
10. ERA-UIC Coordination Framework signed on 29 November 2021 -
Article 4.11

--- Page 58 ---
POSITION VS ERJU

UIC is involved in both:

> System Pillar, as technical
coordinator and/or
team leader of Railway
System Architecture,
DAC, Central Modelling
Systems, PRAMMS (safety
and security) and railway
communications,

> Innovation Pillar, as
affiliated to ERJU Founding
members.

UIC will work in order to avoid
any duplication of work or gap
between UIC activities and
ERJU: some Opt-in projects
will naturally be transformed
into activities inside ERJU,
others will complement the
activities of ERJU. All this
work of synchronisation will
also help the RICG (Research
and Innovation Coordination
Group). Finally, some of the
achievements will support

the preparation of the future
ERRAC Strategic Innovation
Agenda, which will be a main
input of the Master Plan of the
successor of the ERJU.

In addition, UIC is ready to
facilitate the dissemination of
ERJU outputs.

As explained above, the RSF will rely on
both the V-cycle, which distinguishes
specifications   and   guidelines   from
manufacturers’ standards, and the ERA-UIC
Coordination framework, which highlights
the importance of AMoCs (operational
guidelines approved by ERA). Specifications
and guidelines may need inputs from UIC
(technical) reports.

It implies that manufacturers’ standards
will be the responsibility of standardisation
organisations (CEN-CENELEC, ETSI, ISO,
IEC), whereas UIC will focus on (technical)
specifications and guidelines, and (technical
reports) as inputs for specifications and
guidelines.

The Standardisation Unit will have, with the
support of the Standardisation Platform
and on behalf of any UIC Departments,
Forums and Platforms, the following remit
during the 2023-2025 period:

>» Promoting a new user-friendly UIC
Library, open to any UIC members, with
relevant and updated specifications,
guidelines and reports (called publica-
tions in the rest of this paragraph),

> Ensuring that every UIC department,
Forum and Platform will systematically
review the specifications, guidelines and
reports they are responsible for where
necessary and at least every five years.
The objective is to maintain UIC publica-
tions as state-of-the-art,

Publishing the annual UIC work pro-
gramme regarding revision, approval
and publication of existing and new
publications,

Supporting the efforts of ETF in order to
quickly publish any new or updated UIC
documents,

Defending the interests of UIC, notably
the intellectual property on any UIC
publications, at national, European and
global level, to the benefit of our railway
members,

Ensuring the right coordination between
UIC and standardisation organisations
(CEN_CENELEC, ETSI, IEC, ISO, OSJD),
Ensuring the right coordination between
UIC and OTIF regarding UIC publications.

--- Page 59 ---
PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

The Rail System Forum (RSF)
is ready to:

> Host any UIC member
from any region, ready to
participate in RSF Opt-in
projects,

> Adapt UIC specifications
and guidelines to specific
needs of regions, in the
frame of ad-hoc regional
projects or in the course of
multi-regional projects.

In addition, RSF is ready to
organise any Task Force which
may provide added value to
regions (e.g., Task Force on
desert conditions open to Asia,
Africa, Middle-East, Australia
and Europe; Task Force on
Saving Energy, open to all the
regions).

The Rail System Department
will participate in training
efforts, in order to support
regional activities.

TOWARDS A SHARED RAILWAY SYSTEM

© Présidence Sénégal


--- Page 60 ---
co Se
Se


--- Page 61 ---
UNLOCK

MULTIMODALITY
FOR PASSENGERS


--- Page 62 ---
UNLOCK MULTIMODALITY FOR PASSENGERS

STRATEGY & MAIN DELIVERABLES

In order to develop passenger transport and increase rail’s
modal share (over car and planes), customer experience must
be at the forefront of considerations as this is the deciding
factor on which mode of transport is taken.

UIC’s passenger activities are steered by the Global Passenger
Forum, in coordination with all the department’s sectors. A
transverse project planned for the 2023 - 2025 period will
cover customer experience to foster a culture orientated
towards the customer as a key element for the future success
of railways, permeating though all levels of the sector from
top management to people working in the rail company.

Over the next three years UIC’s activities will be structured
as follows.

PSG: Passenger Services Group

The main challenge for the PSG in the 2023 - 2025 period

is implementing the Ticketing Roadmap which has been

jointly drafted with UIC, CER and CIT. The roadmap mainly

consists of the deployment of OSDM (Open Sales and

Distribution Model) by the European UIC members, but also

by other stakeholders: third parties and multimodal transport

operators. The certification of OSDM stakeholders and tools

will be developed with the participation of the PATRIC audit

group.

Other challenges for the PSG in coming years:

> Providing technical support to the CER passenger work-
ing groups related to regulations (TAP-TSI, MMTIS, PRR,
MDMS),

> Defining the UIC vision for architecture for a multimodal
solution, agreeing with DG Move on the necessity of hav-
ing a high-level solution,

> Facilitating interoperability for sales flows (booking, tick-
eting, after-sales) with OSDM being the reference for
railways,

> Defining solutions architecture with IATA within the Ai
Rail IATA/UIC initiative and implementing pilot schemes
by 2025,

> Integrating urban transport based on the Swedish mar-
ket SAMTRAFIKEN experiment while working with urban
transport stakeholders (the Smart Ticketing Alliance,
for example) to define the solution architecture for
interoperability.

Accessibility and inclusion are also part of the PSG Working
Groups’ (PASSAGE) activities to make railways welcoming
and easier for a wider range of clients, in particular those with
disabilities and reduced mobility.

--- Page 63 ---
Intercity and High-Speed

In Europe the group supports the EU's consolidation of the
new market following the 4% package. UIC will pursue the
cooperation with air (IATA) in order to facilitate joint initiatives
among members and boost passenger preference for rail.

Two World Congresses on High-Speed Rail will be organised
for the 2023 - 2025 period

v_
HIGHSPEED

ot    FED RAIL

ce;        4e Right Speed For Our Planet

The first will take place on 7 - 10 March 2023 in Marrakech
under the slogan “High-speed rail: the right speed for our
planet”. The second will be held in Beijing in 2024 or 2025

depending on the health situation.

“HIGHSPEED

Morocco 2023

Two levels of training sessions
on high-speed railways will also
take place in this time period

UNLOCK MULTIMODALITY FOR PASSENGERS

一

International cooperation

International cooperation will increase, in particular with IATA
and UNECE in order to better align the concepts with those
leading international bodies. Finally, During the 2023 - 2025
period, a world conference on stations (Nextstation) will be
organised with a UIC member hosting the event.


--- Page 64 ---
(64)

Discuss the best solutions for ensuring
adapted door-to-door services for new
commuters in order to be more attractive
and put rail at the centre of sustainable
mobility of the future.

Identify new business opportunities for
railways by working with the tourism sector
to better understand what is needed to put
rail at the centre of sustainable tourism.

POSITION VS ERJU

Passenger issues are not
present in ERJU as such.
However, the previous JU
(Shift2Rail) worked on

ticketing systems in IP 4.

It is still too early to know how
these developments can be
linked to the ongoing work

on OSDM and multimodal
ticketing within UIC, but it is
clear that their implementation
will require greater
cooperation.

Moreover, even if it is still
difficult to know if the
technical work needed for
the implementation of the
European Data Space will be
financed within the framework
of ERJU or other European
projects, it is certain that
establishing connections with
the railway ecosystem will
only be possible with UIC’s
involvement.

Indeed, OSDM is the main
link between a potential
intermodal vision with rail
as the backbone. On a more
political level, the VIC will
provide its technical support
to the CER to define a data
sharing strategy, because
the definition of what should
remain the property of
operators is the focus of
discussion.

--- Page 65 ---
PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

All the actions and projects
developed in the passenger
transport sector contribute
to the development of the
regions, not only for Europe
but for all the continents.

For example the activities

of the Passenger Services
Group are mainly focused

on ticketing in many parts of
Europe and several countries
in the Middle-East and Asia-
Pacific. The OSDM (Open
Sales and Distribution Model)
specification as well as the
other associated tools could
be extended to other regions
as it is an open specification
(osdm.io).

The working group on persons
with reduced mobility consists
of members from several
continents. An Australian
company has bought the
database of integrated
timetables and uses it to
provide information on a
global level.

The Station Managers’ Global
Group is open to all continents
just over a year ago, and a new
activity has started in North
America which will address
topics on best practice and
climate change issues.

UNLOCK MULTIMODALITY FOR PASSENGERS

a — sig g

The High-Speed Committee is
open to members across the
world, as almost all entities
which undertake high-speed
activities are part of the group.
Guidelines are developed
within this area and are made
available for the whole sector.
An alliance of universities
comprises a large number of
universities involved in this
subject.

The tourism sector is by nature
worldwide and the UIC TopRail
group reflects this diversity.
The same goes for the
commuter and regional group.

Avgsende

Ankommande


--- Page 66 ---

--- Page 67 ---
INCREASING

RAIL FREIGHT
MODAL SHARE


--- Page 68 ---
INCREASING RAIL FREIGHT
MODAL SHARE

STRATEGY & MAIN DELIVERABLES
The sustainability challenge is the underlying driver of the
freight vision no matter the region. Enabling modal shift
towards rail is key to achieving this ambition.

The Covid pandemic and the energy crisis have emphasised
the importance of rail freight for Europe, as it is the only
sustainable land transport mode being seven times more
energy efficient than road transport.

This ambition is however constrained by an acute shortage
of infrastructure capacity. The European members of the UIC
Freight Forum, united within the Rail Freight Forward (RFF)
Coalition, which is managed by UIC, have therefore agreed a
programme based on digital game changers to address this
challenge together with Infrastructure Managers.

In parallel they continue to work on areas with a comparatively
shorter time to implementation than the digital game
changers. These are referred to as “quick wins”.

Capacity is the most expensive recourse we have in rail freight
and therefore needs to be used efficiently.

Efficiency gains can be achieved within the system by
harmonising and coordinating processes between countries
thus avoiding unnecessary stops at borders for instance
which are resource and capacity intensive.

Under the umbrella of RFF, five digital game changers
were identified as key enablers to deliver the bigger sector
ambition of reaching 30% freight market share by 2030.
These are ERTMS, ATO, DAC, Digital Platform, Digital Capacity
Management.

The combined implementation of these will generate the full
effect desired. With this in mind, in 2022 RFF initiated the “Year
of IM” which is a joint vision between rail operators (freight
and passenger) and infrastructure managers regarding the
priority changes which need to take place within the rail
system.

The vision will be followed by a common implementation plan

around the following actions:

1. Contribute to the definition of the target capacity man-
agement process and planning,

2. Focus on operational concepts in case of ICMs,
Seek to align stakeholders around a common concept
for the border section and _ cross-border-processes
so to ensure maximum fluidity for international cargo
transportation,

4. Support members in their national stakeholder discussion
on the implementation of Digital Capacity Management,

5. Drive, in partnership with RNE the elaborating a common
approach towards data exchange.

The implementation of the aforementioned technologies will
generate an increasing amount of data. This data needs to be
standardised, consumed and provided seamlessly.

--- Page 69 ---
For rail freight, the challenge is to ensure all rail operators,
regardless of their IT maturity, can contribute to this process
so to establish rail freight as a seamless stakeholder in an “end
to end” logistic chain.

This is the goal of the DP-RAIL project which aims to set
up a digital platform for the rail freight ecosystem focusing,
in a first step, on digital solutions for core rail operational
processes with a view of supporting TAF TSI compliance.

UIC is coordinating this process on behalf of a Consortium
of early investors and is seeking EU funding to support the
initiative. (dio-rail.eu).

INCREASING RAIL FREIGHT MODAL SHARE

In addition to these workstreams, UIC Freight is strengthening
its core areas of expertise in the following domains:

> Wagon utilisation,
Corridor development,
Train operation,

Load safety,
Combined transport,

Dangerous goods,

vvvvyvvy

Seamless data exchange.

How these groups/domains provide business value to UIC
members in their daily business formed part of the “Fit for
Freight” dissemination campaign to celebrate UIC’s 100%
anniversary.

In view of the positive feedback received for this initiative, the
freight department will adjust the concept in 2023 to increase
its offer of support to members and onboard newcomers.

FITFOR
FREIGHT

=F VIC Freight month

$=

(6)

Nev)

--- Page 70 ---
One of the freight flagship areas is the work
performed in the wagon domain. In 2023,
work will specifically address:

>» The process steps for repairs of enroute
damages (GCU repairs) against the
background of the processes described
in detail in the ECM Regulation (ECM
maintenance),

>» The continuous improvement of the
ATTI process will aim to strengthen this
safe and simplified wagon exchange/
train handover process further especial-
ly through the enhancement of the qual-
ity guidelines and management system
and by undertaking a Risk Assessment
by an independent body.

UIC was a forerunner in the shaping and
implementation of the corridor concept.
With a view to overcoming interoperability
barriers, the ECCO group will support
the TEN-T revision from an operational
perspective.

The unique asset base (IRS, guidelines and
Leaflets) and expertise of UIC in combined
transport will, from an operational and
technical perspective, continue to support
the high-stake discussions on the combined
transport directive revision and the weights
and dimensions of road vehicles.

POSITION VS ERJU

The driver language topic
received funding from the then
called Shift2Rail. The project
was known as Translate4Rail
(translate4rail.eu) and ended
in December 2021.

At the request of ERJU, several
live demonstrations of the
prototype potential were
performed in 2022: WCRR,
Innotrans, TRA. Some Safety
Authorities also expressed an
interest in receiving additional
information in order to assess
the possibility of the prototype
with regard to their specific
border issues.

The topic is included in the
current work programme of
ERJU although not picked up
as immediate priority.

The concept of DP-RAIL is not
addressed by the ERJU work
programme. It is therefore
envisaged to seek EU funding
from other programmes. Once
the platform is launched, it
could however become the
place towards which new
freight related operational
solutions developed in ERJU
could migrate.

--- Page 71 ---
PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

UIC Freight contributes

to the European Strategy
mainly through the Rail
Freight Forward Initiatives
which it coordinates (www.
railfreightforward.eu). As
described in the above
sections the key objectives lie
with operational and capacity
improvements.

On a global level,

the development of
intercontinental corridors has
opened promising perspectives
to the growth of rail transport
over long distances as an
alternative to other modes
(mainly maritime and road) and
as a key partner in a robust and
sustainable logistic chain. The
corridor concept has been a
driver for international freight
development and collaboration
in which UIC has played a
catalytic role for over a decade.

According to its mission, UIC
has focused its contribution

on improving harmonisation
and interoperability of
operation along the corridors in
collaboration with its members,
partner organisations and
business stakeholders.

In addition to regular market
monitoring along the Eurasian
corridors, UIC’s expertise in
operationalisation of corridors
has reinforced collaboration

with other partner associations
such TRACECA, UNECE, FIATA,
etc.

Furthermore, corridor
management should not be
seen as a regional activity. The
various studies and interviews
we conducted illustrated

this. The complementarity of
corridors is an important point
but a tailored approach to
each of them is also required.

In 2023, it is therefore
envisaged to set up a network
of corridors with the aim to:

> Identify and monitor the
business potential behind
each route: identify success
factors and target markets,

> Propose individual action
plan in line with the
strategy of their “natural”
Region with the aim to have
concrete implementation
projects,

> Organise one or two cross
regional conferences/
workshops per year,

> Continue dialogue with
international partner
organisations,

> Engage with development
banks,

> Facilitate integration
between stakeholders,

INCREASING RAIL FREIGHT MODAL SHARE

TT — sg g

> Promote interoperability
projects and harmonisation
capitalising on expertise.

UIC will continue to develop its
global mission by deepening
and extending it corridor
activities to other regions.
LARA region is in focus.
Creating the necessary uptake
collaboration with sister
organisations like FIATA will be
further extended.

RAILFREIGHT
FORWARD


--- Page 72 ---

--- Page 73 ---
CONTRIBUTING TO THE

FUTURE OF SAFETY
AND OPERATIONS


--- Page 74 ---
CONTRIBUTINC TO THE FUTURE OF SAFETY

AND OPERATIONS

The strategic objectives of the Operations Sector are:

>» Contribution to the Design and Organisation of Future
Railway Operations & traffic management:

> Traffic Control Centres & crises management,

>» CCS & increase of the railway capacity.

> Definition of digital opportunities & use cases for the per-
formance of operations:

>» Support to Automation (DAC, ATO, Artificial Intelligence,
Robotics, 5G use cases, etc.),

> Railway Digital Modelling,

> Enhancing real time operations & customer information
during disrupted situations: digital platforms for interoper-
ability of data operations and exchanges between railway
undertakings & infrastructure managers.

> Digitalisation of safety methods:

> new methods for safety demonstrations based on risk
analyses processes, aiming at an internationalisation of
certifications & approvals of innovative systems.

They will be achieved through:

> Delivering of harmonised operational specifications in
addition to manufacturers’ standards, as an acceptable
means of compliance,

> Training: this demand from UIC members is compliant
with the necessary acceleration of the innovation cycle,

> Organising the Return of Experience “REX” within UIC, so
that Operations & Safety are correctly monitored, via an
integrated safety approach, driving a library of bowties
and safety barriers classification. For Europe, that will be
included within ERA JNS processes and future CSM ASLP,

> Creation of a Scientific Committee, interfaced with the key
activities of the Operations Sector and Safety Platform.

THE MAIN OUTCOMES OF THE OPERATIONS
SECTOR & SAFETY PLATFORM

The first fundamental - safety, with an integrated
approach

Digitalisation in railways will dramatically increase the amount
of data collected for the benefit of an even better safety
management. But at the same time digitalisation increases
a false feeling of total control: the world is becoming more
complex, increasing the uncertainties and the limits of models.

Furthermore, new societal issues need to be considered since
the Covid-19 pandemic. The health and safety of customers
and of the workforce are the top priority for keeping railways
running. Finally, the consequences related to climate change
will force us to establish a crises and risks typology and adopt
crisis and risk-oriented planning methodologies.

The new approach to safety and performance developed in
UIC must be global and transversal

Rule-based
safety

Managed
ae          safety

Industrial
safety

@ Expertise

@ Technical barriers

@ Adaptation

Proactive
behaviours

Approach for an Integrated Safety Approach

@ Rules and procedures

Compliance
behaviours


--- Page 75 ---
The second fundamental - reliability

In the frame of this second fundamental, Ops & Safety
sector will develop specifications related to:

> Right time departure of trains,

>» Design and Simulation,

> Operational Rules,
>

System competencies & skills of the Operational/
Management staff.

The third fundamental - sustainable
interoperability

In the frame of this third fundamental, Ops & Safety

sector will develop specifications related to:

> Ops & Traffic Control centres: high-performance
tools capable of managing most disturbed situa-
tions at their level, including Stations and Hubs,

>» Scenarios for resilience and business continuity,

Data management: unified and interfaced databas-
es for efficient IT.

These fundamentals will lead the Operations Sector
and Safety Platform to work with all other sectors from
Rail System Forum, and with all other departments of
UIC.

CONTRIBUTING TO THE FUTURE OF SAFETY AND OPERATIONS

TT — ggg

POSITION VS ERJU

Supporting the Europe’s Rail
System Pillar (cf. notably
“modular design of railway
components”).

In the frame of ERJU System
Pillar activities, UIC will
coordinate the definition

of targets related to the
performance, reliability,
availability, maintainability,

safety and security of railways.

PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

Looking forward to the
creation of a dedicated Task
Force Safety, for RAME and
AFRICA regions in 2023, based
on the following programme of
identified priority topics:
> Safety Performance:
Settlement of an African
Railway Safety Network
(ARSN), Middle-East Railway
Safety Network (MERSN)
to work on REX and sharing
(safety database),

> Human Factors & Safety
Culture: one peer review
between voluntary
stakeholders, liaising EU and
African/RAME members,

> Training Modules
Development:

> Safety Leadership training,
for CODIR/ COMEX,

> SMS/Safety Culture
training, for Ops and First
Line Managers.


--- Page 76 ---
“gata! GLI)
SURETE FERROVIAIRE.

中


--- Page 77 ---
ENHANCING

SECURITY


--- Page 78 ---
(za)
\/

ENHANCING SECURITY

STRATEGY & MAIN
DELIVERABLES

The security of passengers and goods
as well as the security of staff are key
elements to boost the attractiveness
and efficiency of rail transport. Security
threats are a growing concern in many
rail companies: there are daily threats
such as aggression, pickpocketing,
theft or graffiti, but there are also
more dramatic events such as terrorist
attacks. These threats can have a high
impact, create a feeling of insecurity
and prevent customers from choosing
rail transport.

In this context the main objectives
of the security platform are to share
experiences, develop recommendations
and address emerging threats to help
rail security managers to build their
security policies.

The UIC security platform is organised
around:

>» An annual congress to take stock of
the work carried out and to propose
future priorities,

>» A steering committee which meets
every quarter involving the UIC re-
gions, UIC department activities
(passenger, freight, rail system) when
needed and professional and political
partners (e.g., UITP, RAILPOL, CER),

> Three permanent working groups
(Human Factors, New Technologies
and Strategy, Procedures and
Regulations),

» Two ad-hoc working groups at
the request of UIC members (SIA
on Sabotage/ —Intrusion/Attack
and Crisis Management recently
created).

Beyond the continuous work of the
working groups, the members are
provided with two main tools which
are continuously updated according to
ongoing rail security issues:

> The network of quick responders to
exchange fast information between
the members about arising securi-
ty questions: the objective is to be
very reactive in organising answers
and their analysis in case of new is-
sues or threats targeting one of our
members,

>» The security hub which is a private
secure web platform where rail se-
curity experts can find, access and
share solutions to railway security
issues: about 100 security solutions
are already available and will be
completed with new operational
experiences from the members.

New security solutions will also be
regularly created based on the re-
sults of the work performed within
the security platform activities.

The main priority topics highlighted by
the members of the security platform
for 2023 - 2025 are as follows:

>» Emerging threats: cybersecuri-

ty, CBRN (chemical, Biological
Radiological, Nuclear), insider
threats,

> Crisis management in case of physi-
cal or/and cyber-attack,

>» Cross border issues regarding train
security staff powers,

> Integration and implementation
of security solutions in the rail
environment,

> Training of staff,

>» Emerging security topics linked to
current concerns.

--- Page 79 ---
POSITION VS ERJU

Rail Security is not part of
the ERJU roadmap, however
involvement in EU funded
security research projects

is a key activity to develop
innovative rail security
solutions for the future.
Security related EU projects
are developed within the
Horizon Europe Secure Society
call or DG Home Internal
Security Fund (ISF). For the
next three years, two projects
have already been selected
by the European Commission
on the development of rail
security training programmes.

PARTICIPATION IN THE
REGIONAL STRATEGY

The security platform is
worldwide: security is a
subject that affects all regions.
The security division is ready
to develop regional security
projects or workshops to
address main security threats
and work on security strategies
that can be developed at
regional level.

The security division is

also ready to continue to
participate in training efforts,
in order to support regional
activities.

ENHANCING SECURITY

a


--- Page 80 ---

--- Page 81 ---
EFFICIENT AND

TRANSPARENT
MANAGEMENT


--- Page 82 ---
EFFICIENT AND TRANSPARENT MANAGEMENT

FINANCE

The UIC has set up the first steps for the improvement of its
internal financial control

The objective is to gain a clearer view of each department's
planned budget, isolating the Headquarter component from
the Project Component, in order to facilitate management
decisions.

Efforts are currently being pursued to simplify the whole
accounting system and to develop the accrual performance,
with the aim of obtaining major improvements during the
year 2023

The personalised follow-up accumulated payments arrears has
been implemented with good results thanks to the commitment
of members from all UIC regions. “Absent” members have been
personally approached to better understand their difficulties
or their expectations. These actions have led to a better
understanding of the UIC added value and have boosted the
momentum of their involvement and for the current year 2022
for instance, more than 600K€ have been recovered. In the
future, regional projects will be reinforced to strengthen the
direct participation of members at regional level

Concerning Projects, the projects database has strengthened
its position as a reference tool for members to follow up
the progress of UIC projects. Developments are ongoing
to improve the possibilities of targeted reporting to the
members.

The next step will be to address the fragmentation of human
and capital resources for projects, by consolidating the
pooling of experts and resources towards bigger and more
ambitious projects.

More generally, UIC has successfully improved its visibility and
contribution to European projects from H2020 and Shif2Rail.
This presence is being reinforced in the current Horizon
Europe programme and Europe's Rail, with the ambition to
be recognised as a technical force and a reliable technical
partner at European level

An organisational audit was conducted, and the first part of
the results are currently being implemented. Efficiency gains
will show their full impact in the next period.


--- Page 83 ---
QUALITY

In early 2015, UIC started implementing a Quality Management
System (QMS) in order to better respond to members’
needs for service, as a professional association. A members’
satisfaction enquiry is undertaken every year, as one of the
tools used for measuring the key performance indicators of
the UIC activity. The enquiry’s report is shared with both the
UIC members and staff with the aim to facilitate collective
action for continuous improvement of the association's
overall performance.

In 2017, the UIC QMS was certified with the Quali’OP
label awarded by AFNOR (the French Association for
Standardisation and Certification) to professional associations
committed for quality of service; this certification has been
renewed every year since.

For the following timelapse from 2023 to 2025, UIC intends to
consolidate this quality management system to help achieve
the optimum balance between the UIC’s internal capacities
and members’ expectations.

Efficient organisational structure

“Quality Minute” video explaining UIC’s commitments

EFFICIENT AND TRANSPARENT MANAGEMENT

In order to do so, the main focus will be on:

> Contributing to improve and consolidate the efforts of
all the UIC support services for a better quality of ser-
vice towards the internal (staff) and external (members)
customers,

> Simplifying and formalising internal processes, aiming to
reach an efficient and cost-effective functioning with effi-
cient, competent and well-trained staff,

>» Managing a simple but efficient documentary system as
a common reference framework of coordination between
the internal (staff) and external (members) stakeholders,

> Making sure that the rules for ethical and transparent gov-
ernance are respected and applied,

> Ensuring that UIC obtains further certifications in relation
to its capacities and needs.

In a nutshell, the major objective of the QMS is to involve all
the concerned stakeholders to help achieve a high level of
professionalism in the UIC services and maintain it on a long-
term perspective. This aims satisfying member’s expectations
on the one hand, and enabling UIC to position itself among
the credible and reliable players in the sector at international
level, on the other hand.


--- Page 84 ---
COMMUNICATIONS

The Communications department
implements UIC’s | communications
strategy in line with the Work
Programme's five strategic focus

areas and provides each UIC body
(department or region) with a clear
vision of their strategic messages,
audiences and proposed measures
to implement their communication
actions.

The department will continue to
deliver a multi-channel strategy of
different messages adapted to its
various targeted audiences, with
more emphasis placed on regional
communication and activities. This will
include the organisation of a regular
cycle of regional events to develop
activities and to give more visibility to
the UIC brand in each region.

In terms of social media strategy, key
performance indicators have made it
possible to assess UIC’s communications
actions and to decide the next steps.

Syoulube            he

/manrfestaoy/

Noun
a public declare

of policy, aims
or action plan

UIC Manifesto: Rail solution for a better Future

The promotion of activities on UIC’s
social media platforms will increase,
particularly on LinkedIn, which is UIC’s
most effective social media platform in
terms of follower growth, while internal
and external communications will be
improved through  better-adapted
digital tools for sending the UIC
newsletter, marketing campaigns and
internal news updates.

Having gained more visibility and
credibility in the field of events over
the last few years, the department will
implement an official events policy,
with the aim of developing a more
professional model for the organisation
of UIC events.

A sponsorship policy will be put in
place, establishing a common approach
between all UIC event organisers. The
objective will be to develop a shared
database of contacts, reinforce ties

一

MANIFESTO
UIC centenary

with UIC’s partners, foster relations with
potential sponsors over the long-term,
further strengthen UIC’s image and reach
out to different types of audiences.

S
=                      UIC ACTIVITY BOOKLET
=
=
=
=                                        yic?
=
=
Linkedfi
€ — Q_UIC- International union of railw...  ***
$ Voir en tant que membre
Page        Statistiques        Activité ED

, UIC - International union of railways #U...
SIC’ 48541 abonnés
1mois .图

#UICrail has just published a short video to promote
one of its key publications of 2022: the #Manifesto
for the UIC centenary. Adopted in July this year, the
Manifesto is a concrete follow-up to the Vision of Rail
2030 and to the discussions held between Members
at the UIC Symposium in December 2021. The
document contains Existing and future solutions for
rail to serve the planet and people, taking into account
the significant role of the railways and the need to:

-Transform cities and connect communities

-Use clean energy, technology and innovation
-Promote intermodality and seamless connections;
and

-Transform the customer experience

Read more in eNews: https://Inkd.in/ekcJW99Y

--- Page 85 ---
HUMAN RESOURCES

The Human Resources department
accompanies and = supports UIC’s
strategy and performance, as well as
the transformation of business models
leading to changes in UIC’s activities
and operating methods.

Its goal is to ensure that UlC has the staff
necessary to function and that they do
their best to improve UIC’s performance
while also flourishing.

HR must take employees’ changing
expectations into account and respond
to the various and ever-increasing
challenges inherent to the current
reality of the world of work. This is why
their areas of action are increasing and
their missions are diversifying, which
means that new work organisations
and new management methods need
to be developed, in particular, taking
into account changes in flexibility and
well-being at work and environmental
and societal issues, as well as providing
support for digitalisation

HR's strategy will enable the follows

goals to be met:

>» Mobilising employees regarding the
work programme, a_ collaborative
project which reflects UIC’s values,

>» Taking each person's talents and
skills into account in order to
achieve UIC’s development goals as
well as to promote internal flexibil-
ity and the employee’s professional
development,

EFFICIENT AND TRANSPARENT MANAGEMENT

>» Improving processes and HR's activ-
ities throughout each level of UIC,

>» Increasing the employees’ skills
through access to continued profes-
sional development and promoting
skills management, while taking an
increasingly fluid and digitalised
working environment into account,
especially in light of new challeng-
es, such as the spread of work from
home.

In 2022, the HR Department introduced
a goal-setting review process. 2023

will see the goals being evaluated and
the commitment of employees being
recognised.

The HR Department will focus on the
following initiatives:

»

Staff training, including the develop-
ment of project management skills,

Work on the “employer brand” in
order to:

- help retain talented employees,
increase loyalty and get them to
commit to the company’s aims,
increase the attractiveness of the
company is to qualified people in
order to attract new talent, under-
take or continue HR services’ dig-
italisation, including any potential
changes to the Human Resource
Management System

(@
NO

--- Page 86 ---
www.uic.org

¥ Fin} LO MTTube

#UICrail

--- Page 87 ---
ENGAGEMENT
DE SERVICE

QUALI'OP
REF. 16

AFNOR CERTIFICATION

www.afnor.org

LUIC est une association professionnelle certifiée
pour engagement de qualité de services par
AFNOR.

UIC is a professional association certified by
AFNOR for its commitment to service quality.

Published by: UIC Communication Department
Director of publication: Marie Plaud-Lombard
Design and layout: Coralie Filippini

Photo credit: ONCF JR East, OBB, EFE, RAI,
Amtrak, UIC, AdobeStock, Présidence Sénégal,
SNCFT Camrail, IR, CR, Korail, ZSSK, DB, RhB,
ALAF, VIA RAIL, ISR, CP, PKP, SAR, Rail Freight
Forward

Printing: UIC - 16 rue Jean Rey - 75015 Paris

Reproduction of the content is only authorised with
specific mention of the source (UIC)

ISBN: 978-2-7461-3260-3

Copyright Deposit: February 2023, Paris

--- Page 88 ---
Tc

INTERNATIONAL UNION
OF RAILWAYS

