
--- Page 1 ---
Safety Engineering for Railway
Control & Communications
Systems

An introductory guide for candidates taking Module A of the IRSE Professional
Examination

R Short
February 2021

--- Page 2 ---
Part 1: Safety Principles

This part should be treated as an addendum to the item in the Module A reading
list entitled "Back to Basics - Principles of Railway Safety Engineering, IRSE News,

Issue 267, June 2020” which explains the identification and analysis of hazards and
risks.

--- Page 3 ---
Hazard, Risk and Safety Requirements

It is essential to derive a complete and correct

specification of safety requirements as part of system

development.

Systematic identification of hazards generally involves two phases:

* anempirical phase (exploiting past experience, e.g. checklists)

。 adeductive phase (proactive forecasting, e.g. brain-storming,
structured what-if studies, HAZOP, FMEA).

Hazard Control consists of a number of activities which can be

summarized as follows:

。 define the safety assumptions and system functions related to
the defined hazards

¢ define the system architecture and allocate system functions
within the architecture (technical solution) to meet the safety
requirements including the defined THRs

。 perform the hazard analysis (or causal analysis), to evaluate
the possible causes of hazards

。 determine the safety integrity requirements for the functions
of the system

* complete the safety requirements specification

。 identify potential new hazards arising out of the system design

Legal Framework

Risk Assessment                                              Railway Duty
Holder’s
Responsibility

System Definition

Risk Analysis

Risk Evaluation

System Requirement Specification

Identified Hazards                   Additional hazards,
.                                 Application Conditions
Safety requirements

Hazard Analysis

Demonstration of
Compliance

Supplier’s

Hazard Control              | \             Responsibility

Process Overview


--- Page 4 ---
Risk Acceptance

Risk acceptance criteria depend on national or international legislative requirements.
The Common Safety Method (CSM) promoted by the European Rail Agency (ERA) recognises three risk
acceptance principles:

> use of a code of practice;

> use of a similar system as a reference;

> explicit risk estimation (here the ERA says “The acceptability of the estimated risks shall be evaluated
using risk acceptance criteria either derived from or based on legal requirements stated in Community
legislation or in notified national rules”).

In the UK the legal requirement (Health & Safety at Work Act) is that risk should be made as low as reasonably
practicable (the ALARP principle — see next page).

In practice the CSM and ALARP principles are convergent, as use of a relevant industry code of practice or use
of a system similar to one already in use in comparable applications may be accepted as meeting the ALARP
principle by following industry best practice.

--- Page 5 ---
ALARP

The ALARP principle:
Risk should be made As Low As Reasonably Practicable

A safety measure is not reasonably practicable if its cost is
grossly disproportionate to the safety benefit which it would
provide

Ways of demonstrating ALARP:

Cost/benefit analysis — show that the cost of preventing a
fatality is greater than the nominal value of life. UK has
financial values for preventing fatalities based on surveys of
people’s willingness to pay for safety.

Best practice — show that best practice in the industry has been
applied. It is not considered reasonably practicable to do
more than the best that others in the same industry achieve.
Compliance with ENs may be enough to demonstrate ALARP.

Risk cannot be justified
except in extraordinary
circumstances

Unacceptable
region

Tolerable only if risk
reduction is impractible
or if cost is grossly
disproportionate to the
improvement gained

The ALARP or

tolerability region
(Risk is undertaken only
if a benefit is desired)

Tolerable if cost of reduction would
exceed the improvement gained

Broadly acceptable
region (No need for
detailed working to
demonstrate ALARP)

Necessary to maintain assurance
that risk remains at this level

--- Page 6 ---
Engineering Safety Management

Safety Management can be defined as the organisational measures applied to ensure that an acceptable level
of safety is maintained throughout the life of a system. It has much in common with Quality Management:
both are concerned with the avoidance of loss.

What distinguishes Safety Management from Quality Management, or from the principles of good
management in general, is that Safety Management must concern itself with events which are sufficiently
improbable to be ignored by other aspects of management. For this reason hazard identification and risk
assessment are prominent components of Safety Management.

The respective contributions of Quality Management and Safety Management to the safety of a system can be
simply stated as follows: Quality Management ensures that the system does what was intended, while Safety
Management ensures that what was intended was safe.

--- Page 7 ---
Safety Management as a Process

The safety management process, especially in high-
hazard industry sectors, such as nuclear power,
aviation or petro-chemicals, is often depicted as
‘Plan-Do-Check-Act’ and can be likened to a closed-
loop feedback control system, as illustrated in the
figure on the right, which is based on the model used
by the Health and Safety Executive in their guidance.

Policy
(Strategy)

Organisation
and Resources

Planni a

Implementing

Measuring
performance

Reviewing
performance

--- Page 8 ---
Safety Management and Safety Integrity

The standards for safety-related electronic systems and software place particular emphasis on two aspects of
engineering safety management: INDEPENDENCE and DOCUMENTATION.

Independence of Roles

Many roles within an organisation, such as verifier, tester, validator or assessor, are concerned with confirming
the safety of what has been produced by other roles, such as designers and installers. Independence between
such roles may be required in order to reduce the probability of people in different roles suffering from the
same misconceptions or making the same mistakes.

It is also important that people in roles which involve making judgements about the acceptability of a product
or process from the point of view of safety should not be influenced by pressure from their peers or
supervisors, or by considerations of commercial gain.

Documentation

To engineer is essentially to generate or transform information, and engineering is a social activity involving
collaboration and exchanges between individuals and organisations.  Engineers work primarily with their
brains, and documentation is the medium through which the product of this work is recorded and shared with
others.

Ensuring the safety of complex systems is heavily dependent on large amounts of information being shared
among all the parties concerned, including designers, operators, safety assessors, regulators and safet
authorities. Documents form the principal medium of exchange of information, and there are established
standards and guidelines for safety in systems engineering which set out requirements for what should be
documented and by whom the documents should be reviewed and assessed

--- Page 9 ---
Safety Case: Origins and Definitions

safety case                                                                  “A documented body of evidence that provides
the documented demonstration that the                    a convincing and valid argument that a system
product complies with the specified safety                  is adequately safe for a given application in a

requirements                                                         given environment”

In the term “Safety Case” the word “case” is used with
the same meaning as in a law court — the evidence
offered in court to support a claim.               g

Containment Structure

Safety cases were first used in the nuclear
and off-shore oil industries to gain
approval from their safety regulators


--- Page 10 ---
Why Safety Cases?

° In a Safety Case regime the Developer has to demonstrate that the
system is safe.

° This is potentially more effective than relying on the Assessor or
Approver investigating the system to find out if it is safe.

¢ With complex systems only the Developer has sufficient knowledge of
the system to produce the evidence of safety

--- Page 11 ---
Structure and Content of a Safety Case

Section 6- Safety qualification test
results

Part 6 - Conclusion

Section 5 — Safety-related
application conditions

Part 5 — Related Safety Case

Section 4 — Operation with external
Part 4 - Technical Safety Report                                                                                                                                              influences
i       — Effe        f faul
Part 3 — Safety Management Report                                                                                                           SSeS ELCES GETS
.                                                                                                                                          Section 2 - Assurance of correct
Part 2 — Quality Management Report

functional operation

Part 1 - Definition of System

Section 1 — Introduction

Safety Case                                                     a                                                Technical

Safety Report

BS EN 50128:2011+,

incorporating corrigendum Feb

BSI Standards Publication

Railway applications - Communication,
signalling and processing systems - Software
for railway control and protection systems

--- Page 12 ---
Types of Safety Case

Generic product Safety Case (independent of application)

A generic product can be re-used for different independent applications;                                      Specific Application

Safety Case

Generic application Safety Case (for a class of application)                                                    Changes for
A generic application can be re-used for a class/type of application with common functions;             each application
on each railway                       -
Specific application Safety Case (for a specific application)                                                                                Generic Product
aps         og                                .        .          .                                                                                       Safety Case
A specific application is used for only one particular installation.

(=

The three types of safety case would apply to a
programmable interlocking system as shown
here. The signalling logic embodies the
signalling principles of the railway network,
while the geographical data configures each
interlocking to its respective track and signal
layout.

Fixed for each

railway  Generic Application

Safety Case

Fixed for all
applications on
all railways
Generic Product
Safety Case

--- Page 13 ---
Part 2: Achieving Safety Integrity

--- Page 14 ---
What is Safety Integrity?

Safety Integrity is defined as the likelihood of a system satisfactorily
performing the required safety functions under all the stated
conditions within a stated period of time.

The expression “required safety functions “ includes the function of
reverting to a safe state in the event of a failure.

To achieve acceptable safety integrity we need to know why failures
occur and how components and systems behave in the event of failure.

Failures relevant to safety are commonly classified as being either
random or systematic.

--- Page 15 ---
Ra N qd O aa   a N qd  Syste aa ati C ¢ From the point of view of the user, all failures are

random. If it was known when they would occur they

Fa | | U res                                               could be prevented or avoided.

¢ The failure of physical components is determined by the

Failure Categories                                         laws of physics. They appear to happen at random

because we do not know enough about the precise

Systematic failure             Random failure                       physical condition of the component.
|                           |                          * The significant demarcation is between failures whose

- Errors in                                                          distribution is known and those whose distribution is

requirements                   - Operating modes
- Design and realisation         - Environment                         unknown.

inadequacies              - Stress degradation                    .            .         .    .         ,         .
- seanufacturing               - Wear out                          ¢ Failures for which there is reliable statistical data, i.e.

eviclencies

- Inherent weaknesses          ; a stress                          failures of well-established components, are treated as
- Software errors                                               Random Failures
- Operating instruction

deficiencies                                               。 Failures for which reliable statistics do not exist, e.g.
- Instruction inadequacies
- Human errors                                                          design errors (especially software) or failures of new
~ Ete.                                                                 types of component, are treated as Systematic Failures.


--- Page 16 ---
Designing to Take Account of Failure

In general, failures classified as “random” are those whose rate of occurrence cannot be made low enough to
provide to provide sufficient assurance of safety. For such failures safety is assured by means of the fail-safe
principle, which can be defined as “a design property of signalling equipment, and of the system within which
it is used, that under failure conditions will provide safety for traffic”.

In practice this is achieved by constructing signalling systems from subsystems or components having well-
defined predictable failure modes and ensuring that failure states correspond to restrictive traffic conditions.

Fail-safety, can be achieved in three different ways:

> Inherent fail-safety, where the system or subsystem is designed so that any credible failure mode of any
of its component parts will result in a restrictive state.

> Composite fail-safety. With this technique, each safety-related function is performed by at least two
items. Each of these items shall be independent from all others, to avoid common-cause failures. Non-
restrictive activities can progress only if the necessary numbers of items agree.

> Reactive fail-safety. This technique allows a safety-related function to be performed by a single item,

provided its safe operation is ensured by rapid detection and negation of any hazardous fault by
another item.

--- Page 17 ---
Inherent Fail-Safety: The Semaphore signal

OFF                   ON

Perhaps the simplest example of a fail-safe component
is the semaphore signal with its counterbalance weight
to restore the signal to the “on” position should the
operating wire break.

Note that fail-safe behaviour also depends on the drive

rod being sufficiently strong not to beak or deform
Drive rod -一

under any force which may be applied to it.

—

Counterbalance
weight

--- Page 18 ---
Inherent Fail-Safety: The Signalling Relay

The fail-safe characteristics of the signalling relay are at
the heart of almost all classical electrical signalling
safety. In British signal engineering practice the principal
relay safety characteristics are an armature and contact
operating mechanism with sufficient restoring forces
from gravity and spring pressure to ensure that it will
release when the coil is de-energised, and non-weldable
contacts formed from mating and silver-impregnated
carbon pairs.

Signalling circuitry using such relays is designed so that
relays are required to be energised to enable a
“oroceed” signal aspect to be given. Any failure, such as
a broken wire or high-resistance contact, will cause one
or more relays in the circuit concerned to de-energise,
in which case a restrictive signal aspect will be
displayed.


--- Page 19 ---
Safety features of Signalling relay

Non-weldable contacts

Non-magnetic stud to prevent
armature being held by
residual magnetism when relay
de-energised

--- Page 20 ---
Composite and Reactive Fail-Safety

Inherent fail-safety is difficult to achieve in electronic systems because they generally comprise a large number
of electronic components with a wide variety of possible failure modes, so that it is not feasible to design so
that no credible failure mode of any component will result in an unsafe state.

Inherent fail-safety has been achieved for relatively simple electronic devices, such as the transmitter and
receiver units of audio frequency track circuits, but for more complex applications based on microprocessors
and other large-scale integrated electronic components, for example signal interlockings, composite or reactive
fail-safety, or often a blend of the two, is almost always the preferred solution.

Both techniques depend on there being a very low probability of simultaneous failures in independent parts of
the overall system. This calls for the system design to ensure that the time to detect and react to individual
failures is sufficiently short. It is also necessary to ensure that inherent fail-safety will be achieved with regard
to common-cause failures which might result in multiple simultaneous failures.

--- Page 21 ---
Composite Fail-Safety

Composite fail-safety not only requires two
independent functional channels to agree in
order to produce and output but also
requires that neither channel will have
detected a fault, typically by means of
internal self-testing routines.

The ability to detect a first fault and isolate
the faulty channel makes a significant
contribution to safety. If the first fault were
to remain undetected indefinitely, the
probability of a similar fault occurring in the
second channel during the life of the
equipment would be far from negligible.

COMPOSITE FAIL-SAFETY

FUNCTION A
FAULT DETECTION

FUNCTION A

FUNCTION B
FUNCTION B
FAULT DETECTION

FUNCTION A
DETECTION

FUNCTION B

OUTPUT
SAFE

T                                 3

FIRST      DETECTION NEGATION SECOND
FAULT     OF FIRST      SWITCHES FAULT
OCCURS FAULT         OFF         OCCURS
INA       INA          OUTPUT INB

NEGATION

The probability of

a 1st fault, combined with
the probability of a

2nd fault occurring
during the 1st fault
detection-plus-negation
time T, shall be less than
the specified probabilistic
target.

--- Page 22 ---
Reactive Fail-S9afety

In the event of a failure of Function A an
unsafe output can be present until negated
by the fault detection. Hence the value of T
for reactive fail-safety is much shorter than
the value for composite fail-safety.

Reactive fail-safety is to be found in relay
interlocking, where failure of signal lamps,
which are not inherently fail-safe, is
protected by lamp-proving circuits which
restrict the aspects of relevant signals when
a lamp failure is detected.

REACTIVE FAIL-SAFETY

FUNCTION A
FAULT DETECTION
FUNCTION A

FUNCTION A   |
DETECTION

OUTPUT  |

SAFE

<— SE

NEGATION

OUTPUT

Detection-plus-negation
time T, after a fault in A,
shall not exceed the
specified limit for the
duration of a transient,
potentially - hazardous
output.

DETECTION NEGATION
SWITCHES
OFF OUTPUT

FAULT
OCCURS OF FAULT
INA           INA

--- Page 23 ---
Common-Cause Failures

Hazard
Faults leading                     Faults leading                                  TD
to Function A                 to Function B                          7 从                    |       1
failure                          failure                                   人 1                     | Common

1
Function A| | Function B
failure              failure

The Venn diagram and simple fault tree show how a common-cause failure (CCF) can
undermine the protection given by composite fail-safety. A common-cause failure between
function and fault detection would have a similar effect on reactive fail-safety.

--- Page 24 ---
Example of Combination of Safety Techniques within a Signalling System

Remote Terminals 一一>
\       a          /

Signaller

—
t

7  =  —IN
eo
LN

一        1
N\
I
” High integrity software

Composite or Reactive Fail-Safety

Safe Data transmission

24

--- Page 25 ---
Systematic Failures

Errors of

intention
Systematic failures result from errors which can occur at any
point in the lifecycle of a system or an item of equipment.

Examples of such errors are shown on the right. It is not
possible to use the fail-safe principle to protect against the
effects of systematic failures because there is no way of
ensuring that the only errors which can occur will be those
which result in a restrictive state.

Protection against systematic failure depends on preventing
or detecting and removing errors at each stage of the
lifecycle. The development of safety-related software is a
prime example of this approach.

“Need”
What the system is
intended to do

Overlooked
side effects,
special cases,
preconditions

Oo

CD
Q                     oOo
Conception

How the system will be
implemented

Specification
Precise description of
what system shall do.

Desi;
Expression of spec. in
logical statements and
structures

Build
Physical realisation of
design.
Formation of operating
team

Instal/Commission
Bring into use

Use
System operation

Maintain
Planned or reactive

“Reality”
The environment in
which the system works

Misconceptions
about the way the
world works

Errors in expressing
and writing down
specifications

Mistakes and omissions
Misconceptions about
the way components
work

Mistakes
Faulty tools

Faulty tools
Disturbances
Installer/tester
error

Stress
Disturbances
Deterioration

Faulty tools or
components
Maintainer error

--- Page 26 ---
The Advent of Software

The development of processor based systems in the
1980s brought the problem of software, which cannot
be fully tested.

The focus of safety assurance then shifted from product
to process.

The Welding Analogy

You can’t fully test software,             You can’t test every weld,

so you rely on the production            so you rely on the welding
process and the competence            process and the competence
of the software engineers                  of the welder

Solid State Interlocking

it


--- Page 27 ---
The SIL Concept

The concept of SIL (Safety Integrity Level) was introduced early in the development of standards
for safety related software because there was no way of measuring the probability of unsafe
failure of software.

There is still no way of measuring this probability.

Although it is not possible to determine a numerical value for the probability of failure, it is
reasonable to believe that if more effective design and Verification & Validation methods are
used, the probability will be lower.

If the best possible methods are used, the software will have the highest possible safety integrity.
It was decided to have four categories of method, so that SIL 4 is the highest possible.

The SIL concept has been extended from software to cover all types of systematic failure, such as
errors in requirements, design errors and manufacturing errors.

--- Page 28 ---
The SIL Concept Illustrated

Safety integrity Description of safety

level                 integrity
4            Very High Integrity
3                                              Increasing rigour
5                                              and effectiveness
of methods
1

0                Basic Integrity

--- Page 29 ---
Definitions of SIL

* The following definitions are shared by standards BS EN 50126, 50128 and 50129

safety integrity
ability of a safety-related system to achieve its required safety functions under all the stated conditions
within a stated operational environment and within a stated duration

safety integrity level
one of a number of defined discrete levels for specifying the safety integrity requirements of safety-related
functions to be allocated to the safety-related systems

software safety integrity level
classification number which determines the techniques and measures that have to be applied to software

system safety integrity level
classification number which indicates the required degree of confidence that an integrated system comprising
hardware and software will meet its specified safety requirements

--- Page 30 ---
BS EN 50128:2011+A2:2020
Incorporating corrigendum February 2014

Principles of Development for SIL

BSI Standards Publication

The principles applied in developing high integrity systems and software include, but     Railway applications - Communication,

signalling and processing systems - Software

are not restricted to:                                                                                 for railway controland protection systems
BS EN 50129:2018

> top-down design methods                                                                mopman 209

> modularity                                                                S Be > i) He

> verified components and component libraries (mainly for software)          SSIS EW EEESHAEKER

> verification of each phase of the development lifecycle,

Railway applications - Communication,
signalling and processing systems - Safety

> clear documentation and traceability                                               eed Secon ree

> auditable documents                                                      The standards EN 50129 (electronic systems)
> validation                                                                      and EN 50128 (software) include tables of

techniques and measures for implementing
these principles to meet the required SIL

> assessment

> configuration management and change control

> appropriate consideration of organisation and personnel competency issues

--- Page 31 ---
Part 3: Safety of Data
Transmission

--- Page 32 ---
Railway
Signalling and Data
Transmission

The diagram shows a state-of-the-art signalling
system where there are no lineside signals and vital
data giving authority for train movements is
transmitted to the train by radio. A fixed data link,
which may use optical fibres or copper conductors
for its transmission medium, transmits command
and status data between lineside equipment and the
control centre, and a speech link is also provided by
radio between the signaller and the train driver. This
system architecture is typical of that adopted for the
European Train Control System (ETCS)

Adjacent signal
box

t+,

Train running
information (non

Train contro

Local
cabling

Other business


--- Page 33 ---
Conceptual Model of Data Transmission System

Information may be transmitted through a

hierarchy of electronic systems which may          Based on the OSI model of open transmission systems
store, forward or otherwise manipulate the
information. Hardware or software faults in           ay 1                                  IR       aay

any of these systems might corrupt the
information in unpredictable ways. The vital
information receiver and the safe process
must be capable of distinguishing between
valid and corrupt information. Ways of
making this distinction include:

。 All physical signals above a certain

amplitude or within a certain frequency                          TEAST TER      FIYSIGAL =“ RECEIVER

band                                               SS                                                                  aol
。 Digital data which satisfies particular                                             i

coding rules

* Messages which satisfy certain protocols, _ Failures, errors and noise may affect any component in the model

e.g. have correct addresses or valid time
stamps

--- Page 34 ---
Multidimensional View of Information

Physical signal - within this dimension only the analogue value
of the physical signal is considered.

we thee        fon i           inn i                      1                                           LD R1
Data - in this dimension information is generally considered as                            JMPC RESET
strings of binary digits, and the relevant information protection                             LD PRESS_1
.                P                     oo                              ST MAX_PRESS
techniques focus attention on the patterns of digits, without any                                    RESET-LDO       =a

consideration of useful content or meaning.                                                                         ST A_X43
Procedures — the information units considered are words consist-
ing of groups of digits, but checks refer to protocol or syntax
rather than meaning.

Content — in this dimension the meaning of transmitted informa-

tion is taken into account in checking its correctness.

Sources of Error

Inherent characteristics, error generated by sources within the                     en
transmission system (e.g. thermal noise in resistors)                                Mm       ial ’ —
External influences (the electromagnetic environment), errors                ‘NNW

injected from sources outside the system, generally referred to                        了  :  |

as electromagnetic interference (EMI)                                                                                           7

Equipment failure, errors which are solely the result of equipment

failure within the system.

--- Page 35 ---
Methods of Protecting Information Transmission

Protection in the Physical Signal Dimension

> Screening of cables and equipment housings                                  ;            ; Fail-Safe      a
> The use of balanced twisted conductors in copper cables          The fail-safe principle is applied in the
> Suppression of interference at source                              transmission of safety information by

> Use of optical fibres as a transmission medium                       designing the receiving safe process to
adopt a restrictive state in the event of

The Data Dimension — Coding
errors being detected or loss of

> Repeat messages
> Block coding                                                      transmission
> Convolution or cyclic block coding

Protection in the procedural dimension

> Closed-loop protocols: receiver repeats message back to sender and awaits confirmation from sender before acting
on message

> Time stamping: message contains time of origin — receiver will reject information which is too old

> Sender’s address included in message — receiver will reject information from wrong sender, e.g. in the event of
message routing errors or cross-talk
