
--- Page 1 ---
Se
ae

AR
ATA,
= ay,

Wee

by “Pepe, Oe  hg

ee
eo

Programming
Document

2024-2026

UROPEAN

E
UNION
AGENCY
FOR RAILWAYS

--- Page 2 ---
Manuscript completed in November 2023

Neither the Agency nor any person acting on behalf of the Agency is responsible for the use
which might be made of the following information.

Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2023

PRINT — ISBN 978-92-9477-447-7 — doi:10.2821/070059 ~~ TR-02-23-130-EN-C
PDF  ISBN 978-92-9477-448-4 — doi:10.2821/358723 — TR-02-23-130-EN-N

Photo credits: © hanohiki (cover), Petair (page 13), franz12 (page 16),
Henlisatho (page 66) / stock.adobe.com

© European Union Agency for Railways, 2023

Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. For any use or reproduction of individual
photos or illustrations, permission must be sought directly from the copyright holders.

--- Page 3 ---
Contents

© List of acronyms...

Foreword by the Executive Director ..
© Mission statement..

@ |. General context...

@ il. Multi-annual programming 2024-2026
| Multi-annual work programme 2024-2026...

| Structure of the multi-annual programme 2024-2026...

| Content of the multi-annual programme 2024-2026

| Human and financial resources - outlook for the years 2024 — 202

| Overview of the past and current situation

| Outlook for the years 2024 - 2026.......

| Resource programming for the years 2024 - 202

| Strategy for achieving efficiency gains......

| Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks...

© Ill. Annual Work programme 2024
| Executive summary
| Activities.

| Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational
barriers to the free movement of people and goods
by rail, assets can be reused throughout Europe......41
| Strategic statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an en-
vironmentally sustainable multimodal transport sys-
tem and will be favoured as a transport mode by the
new generations...                                  AT
| Strategic statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility
as a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be
ensured, including multi-leg ticketing...             47
| Strategic statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of
transport for its users and workers.....                    49
| Strategic statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emer-
gency situations                                  53
| Strategic statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competi-
tive as a mode and as a sector...                          154
| Strategic statement 7 - The EU will become the global ‘reference for rail and
ERA authorisations will be globally recognised.........56
| Strategic statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient gov-
ernance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the
best value for money to citizens and business in the

58

| Strategic statement 9 -The Agency will ensure a performant working envi-

ronment, based on high-quality motivated human
resources and a collaborative behaviour...          63

CONTENTS |1

--- Page 4 ---
215SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

ll IV. Annexes

| Annex |. Organisational char
| Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity 2024 - 2026 ()
| Annex Ill. Financial Resources 2024-2026.....
| T 1. Revenue....
1T2. Expenditure.
| 73. Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations
| Annex lV. Human Resources 2024-2026 - quantitative...
| 14. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff.
1T5. Multi-annual staff policy plan 2022-2026.....
| 76. Recruitment forecasts 2024 following retirement/mobility or new
requested posts.....
| Annex V. Human Resources 2024-2026 - qualitative
| A. Recruitment (engagement) policy...
[B. Appraisal and reclassification / promotions
| C. Gender representation...
| D. Geographical balanc
le Schooling
| Annex VI. Environment managemen
| Executive summary...
| ERA in the broader policy context related to environmen
| Environmental impacts of ERA activities
| Accountability ceiling of ERA.
| Environment management initiatives and actions completed in 2023.
| Environment management achievements of ERA until 2022 ()
| Environment management initiatives and planned actions .
| Current status and plan for certifications and standards
| Annex VIL Building policy - year 2024
| Current building(s).....
| Building project in the planning phase
| Annex Vill. Privileges and immunities,
| Annex IX. Evaluations.
| Terminology ()
| Annex X. Strategy for the organisational management and internal
control system:
| Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution, or service-level agreements .
| Annex XII. Strategy for cooperation with third countries and/or
international organisations...
| Annex XIII. Procurement plan.......
| Annex XIV. Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-202
| 1. Context...
| 2. What we want to achieve.
| 3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and targets.
| 4. Governance and monitoring arrangements.
| 5. Risks...


--- Page 5 ---
List of Tables

ble1-Human resources 2022-2024 ()…

ble 2 - Revenues 2022-2024..
ble 3 - Expenditure 2022-2024.                                                          35
ble 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2024-2026                                      36

ble 5 - Human resources — Outlook 2024-2026 (
ble 6 - Number of posts for each organisational entity ()
ble 7 - Resource allocation 2023 - 2026 ()

ble 8 - Overview of revenues

ble 9 - General revenues

ble 10 - Overview on additional EU funding

ble 11 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level
reements.

ble 12 - Expenditure

ble 13 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)

ble 14 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)

ble 15 - Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

ble 16 - Establishment plan posts...

ble 17 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant,
ntribution or service-level agreements () ().

ble 18 - Structural service providers ()....

ble 19 - Interim workers.

ble 20 - Temporary Agents.

ble 21 - Contract Agents

ble 22 - Seconded National Experts...

ble 23 - Recruitment forecast

ble 24 - Implementing rules in place

ble 25 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and
reclassification / promotion...

ble 26 - Reclassification of temporary staff...

ble 27 - Reclassification of contract staff () ....
ble 28 - Data on 31/12/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA).

ble 29 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle
d Senior management ().

ble 30 - Data on 31/12/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA).         90

ble 31 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality
the Agency- to be updated

ble 32 - Schooling

ble 34 - Privileges granted to staff

ble 36 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2024

ble 37 - Planned use in 2024 of existing framework contracts

LIST OF TABLES | 3

--- Page 6 ---
41|5SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

List of acronyms

AD                    Administrator

AMOCS                Acceptable Means of Compliance

AO                       Authorising Officer

AOD                     Authorising Officer by Delegation

AR                        Agency Regulation

ASLP                  Assessment of Safety Level and Performance

AST                   Assistant

ATO                      Automatic Train Operations

BoA                    Board of Appeal

CA                        Contract Agent

CAAR                    Consolidated Annual Activity Report

CCM            Change Control Management

ccs                    Control Command and Signalling

CEOS                    Conditions of Employment of Other Servants

COR                    Common Occurrence Reporting

COVID-19             Coronavirus pandemic (SARS-CoV-2)

CSIs                      Common Safety Indicators

CSMs                    Common Safety Methods

CSTs                     Common Safety Targets

CUI                    Common User Interface

DAC                      Digital Automatic Coupler

DG BUDG           Directorate-General for Budget

DG DIGIT            Directorate-General for Informatics

DG MOVE             Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport

DG NEAR            Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement
Negotiations

Dol                    Declaration of Interest

EASA                 European Union Aviation Safety Agency

EB                     Executive Board

EC                     European Commission

ECA                    European Court of Auditors

ECM                    Entity in Charge of Maintenance

EFTA                       European Free Trade Association

EMSA                   European Maritime Safety Agency

EPSO                  European Personnel Selection Office

ERA                  European Union Agency for Railways

ERADIS               ERA Database on Interoperability and Safety

ERATV                  European Register of Authorised Types of Vehicles

EU Rail JU             Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking

ERSAD                European Railway Stations Accessibility Database

ERTMS               European Rail Traffic Management System

--- Page 7 ---
ESG
ESO
ETCS
EU
EUAN
EVR
FFR
FM
FRMCS
FTE
FWC
GSMR
HOF
HQ

HR

IAS
ICC
ICF
ICT

IMS
INEA
loA
IPA
IRSC
Iso
ISS

JNS
JU
KPI
Laas
MaaS
MB
MFF
Ms
MT
NIB
NOBO
NSA
NTRs
NVR
OSJD
Oss
OTIF
PCP

Economic Steering Group

European Standardisation Organisation
European Train Control System
European Union

EU Agencies Network

European Vehicle Register

Framework Financial Regulation
Facility Management

Future Railway Mobile Communication System
Full Time Equivalent

Framework Contract

Global System for Mobile Communications (Railway)

Human and Organisational Factors
Headquarters

Human Resources

Internal Audit Service of the Commission
Internal Control Coordinator

Internal Control Framework

Information and Communication Technologies
Infrastructure Manager

Integrated Management System

The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency
Inventory of Assets

Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance
International Railway Safety Council
International Organisation for Standardization
Information Sharing System

Information Technology

Joint Network Secretariat

Joint Undertaking

Key Performance Indicator

Logistic as a Service

Mobility as a Service

Management Board

Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union

Member State of the European Union
Management Team

National Investigation Body

Notified Body

National Safety Authority

National Technical Rules

National Vehicle Register

Organization for Co-operation between Railways
One-Stop Shop

Organisation for International Carriage by Rail
Priority Countries Programme

LIST OF ACRONYMS | 5

--- Page 8 ---
PoE                    Pool of Experts

PM                        Project Manager

PO                            Project Owner

PR                     Public Relation

PRM                   Persons with reduced mobility

RASCOP             Rail Standardisation Coordination Platform

RBs                  Recognition Bodies

RDD                   Reference Document Database

Reg.                      EC Regulation

RFC                    Rail Freight Corridors

RINF                      Register of Infrastructures

RISC                       Railway Interoperability and Safety Committee

RSD                     Railway Safety Directive

RSG                    Research Steering Group

RU                        Railway Undertaking

SAIT                      Safety Alert IT Tool

SAP                  Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027

scs                       Safety Culture Survey

SERA                  Single European Railway Area

SLA                    Service Level Agreement

SM                     Service Manager

SMS                      Safety Management System

SNE                 Seconded National Expert

sO                        Service Owner

sos                 Strengthening ERA‘s role in Operational Safety in the EU, Concept
paper submitted to the MB

SP                        Safety Performance

SPD                  Single Programming Document

SRD                   Single Rules Database

SSC                     Single Safety Certificate

TA                        Temporary Agent

TA                        Trackside Approvals

TAF                       Telematics Applications for Freight

TAP                      Telematics Applications for Passenger Services

TDG                     Transport of Dangerous Goods

TSI                   Technical Specifications for Interoperability

UIC                   International Union of Railways

VA                        Vehicle Authorisation

VKM                   Vehicle Keeper Marking

we                    Work Programme

ARP                   Fourth Railway Package

6 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 9 ---
Foreword by the
Executive Director

2024 marks the 20" anniversary of the creation of the European Union Agency for
Railways. Since its foundation, ERA has been at the side of the European railway stake-
holders, carrying out an ever-increasing set of crucial tasks for railways. | am proud of all
the achievements the Agency has accomplished during the last 20 years and | am con-
fident the Agency will bring even more added value to the railway sector in the future,
especially with the progressive development of the Single European Railways Area.

In the recent years, we have witnessed many worrying trends, such as the resurgence of
war on the European continent, certain macroeconomic challenges, as well as increasing-
ly serious climate change impacts across the world. In such worrying environment, trans-
port has a crucial role to play, not only in ensuring the safe transport of people and goods,
but as well in the decarbonisation of the sector and its adaptability to a changing climate.
Safety is also a crucial element for railways. Following the tragic rail accident which took
place in February 2023 near Larissa in Greece, we need to ensure that the right measures
and checks are put in place to prevent such accidents from happening again. "A sustain-
able, safe European transport system without frontiers” does therefore not only represent
our Agency's vision statement, but also reflects the ambition of the rail sector at large.

In line with its mandate, the European Union Agency for Railways aims at covering a wide
range of areas of work, involving actions to drive the continuation of the progress with
railway safety and interoperability, together with its role of EU-wide authority for Vehicle
Authorisation, Single Safety Certification, and ERTMS Trackside Approval.

The multi-annual work programme 2024-2026, together with the annual programme
2024 have been planned and prepared following the principles of the intervention log-
ic. In addition, the work programme was prepared reflecting the conclusions of the SPD
2024 Workshop held with the Management Board in June 2022.

The year 2024 will be an important milestone for our Authority activities, as also it marks
the fifth year since the start of the Agency's Authority activities according to the technical
pillar of the 4t Railway Package. The Agency has now gained significant experience in
running the tasks related to its Authority role, as well as in forecasting their volume to the
best extent possible, considering the challenges of a moving macroeconomic context.
However, the volatility of the applications and their volumes can still greatly differ from
one year to the other, which renders the planning of activities and the detailed forecast
of revenues somewhat complex. The Agency will continue to monitor this aspect closely
and to apply its agile management of these tasks. In addition, it is important to note that
the Agency has reached an increasingly higher maturity level with the processing of au-
thorisation and certification tasks, which provides for a higher efficiency in their delivery.

The Agency will also continue to reinforce its efficiency and effectiveness for this multian-
nual work programme. In 2022 already, the Agency's Management Board adopted the
Strengthening Plan and its subsequent action plan prepared by the Agency in close
cooperation with the European Commission, highlighting the critical importance of ar-
eas of works such as: Tsls and national rules clean up, ERTMS, CSM ASLP the monitoring
of NSAs and NoBos, as well as data and digitalization. As a result, the Agency received
an increase of 12 temporary agent posts (TAs) starting in 2023, which should be entirely
covered through the Agency's existing stream of revenues. The latter represents a signif-
icant challenge, especially in the context of a volatile pattern of inflation. Continuously,
the Agency is making a thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these costs in a

Josef Doppelbauer

FOREWORD BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR | 7,

--- Page 10 ---
8 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

sustainable manner until the end of MFF 2021-2027. Additionally, the Agency is making
sustained efforts for a combined response to the resourcing challenge by increasing the
irect utilisation of its resources, both in terms of budget and FTEs.

The Agency keeps a strong commitment to deploying the necessary resources to meet
e legal deadlines related to issuing of VA, SSC and ERTMS Trackside approvals, while also
respecting the deadlines for its safety and interoperability related activities, all of which
contribute to the achievement of the high-level policy objectives of the 4th Railway Pack-
age. The decision time linked to the authority tasks has undeniably a tremendous impact
on the rail stakeholders and on the competitiveness of rail compared with other sectors.
he Agency therefore strives for an increasingly higher level of efficiency in its authority
tasks, as for its other activities.

4

4

he Agency has based the 2024 budget envelope on the draft budget proposal of the Eu-
ropean Commission and is hopeful that this envelope will be confirmed as the final result
of the EU budget negotiation procedure for 2024. Any cut applied to this envelope would
affect the level of ambition and commitment for the proposed activities in 2024.

The Agency would also like to bring forward interesting and new projects that could
benefit the entire rail sector. Separately to the Single Programming Document, the Agen-
cy has put forward a proposal on its resource needs to develop the Information Sharing
System (ISS), which is crucial for the successful implementation of CSM ASLP. The Agency
will continue to work intensely on its NSA monitoring activities, as it is one of the policy
priorities highlighted in the Strengthening Action Plan. In addition, there is a need to de-
velop, together with Member States, a new Priority Countries Programme (PCP) at EU level,
with a broader approach which goes beyond the scope of current monitoring activities
of the Agency (e.g. NSA, NoBo, Peer review NIB, etc). The PCP has the potential to provide
a more holistic picture of railway safety and interoperability in the Member States, and
to bring further changes to improve safety across the EU through capacity building and
mutual exchanges. These tasks would need to receive an additional dedicated resource
envelope. The legal framework (current and any potential new evolution) is to be defined.

| would like to assure the members of the Management Board that the Agency will con-
tinue to implement the mechanism already put in place for a regular monitoring of the
SPD implementation in terms of outputs delivery and resource consumption, as well as
of the Strengthening Action Plan. The Agency will also continue to improve the set of
budget execution monitoring actions already established to make best use of the avail-
able budget appropriations. The Agency will strengthen its tools to better plan, monitor,
and report so as to continuously increase its data-driven, transparent working culture. In
addition, more efforts will be produced to achieve more with less resources, as well as en-
suring that the processes within the Agency are streamlined to deliver high-quality results
to all our stakeholders, in line with the Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027.

The Agency will also continue to work closely with its stakeholders in order to ensure the
successful implementation of this challenging multi-annual programme. These activities
of the Agency are crucial for contributing to the achievement of a significant modal shift
to rail, in particular by helping to create and manage a Single European Rail Area, and to
continuously improve railway safety in Europe. At the same time, we will continue our
efforts to progress towards a culture of collaboration in the Agency. | would like to thank
the ERA staff and all our stakeholders for their dedication and support, that | am sure will
continue for the years to come, as we will work towards an improved European transport
system, multimodal in nature, with rail as its backbone, eventually benefitting from a fully
functioning Single European Railway Area.

Josef Doppelbauer

--- Page 11 ---
Mission statement

The vision and mission statements of the Agency (A sustainable, safe European transport
system without frontiers” and “Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe railway sys-
tem without frontiers’, respectively) were defined in 2021. They reflect its current position
and role, while of course remaining fully in line with the legal mandate of the Agency.

The Agency contributes to the further development and effective functioning of a Single
European Railway Area without frontiers, by guaranteeing a high level of railway safety
and interoperability, while improving the competitive position of the railway sector, as
envisaged by the Agency Regulation 2016/796. In particular, the Agency shall contribute,
on technical matters, to the implementation of Union legislation by developing a com-
mon approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhancing the level of interoper-
ability on the Union rail system and associated data, with a specific focus on facilitating the
interoperable deployment of ERTMS and on access to data for pushing rail modernisation
and digitalisation. By working in close cooperation with the national authorities acting in
the fields of railway safety and interoperability, the Agency will substantially contribute
to an increased competitiveness of rail and to the seamless cross-border traffic in the EU.
Moreover, through timely delivery of appropriate regulation that reflects the harmonised
and validated solution proposals from the Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking, the Agency
contributes significantly to the coordinated and rapid deployment of such solutions, thus
strengthening the competitiveness of rail in the transport mix. All these elements are
translated into rail becoming more attractive and affordable for passengers and freight,
with the Agency playing an active role in supporting the delivery of the European Green
Deal for the EU citizens and businesses.

Vision statement

pean trar

To foster its mission, the Agency has identified the following fundamentals (F) and ena-
blers (E):

MISSION STATEMENT | 9

--- Page 12 ---
Mission statement

All our decisions are determined to
servethe common good and the
public interest.

Our collaborative analysis supports
decisions based on objective data.

We are all aware of ERAs mission

and we are committed to support

together the achievement of our
business objectives.

ERA Fundamentals: Attributes

We acknowledge and take into
account the legacy of the EU rail
system, the complexity of the
interactions between the various
modes of transport and levels of
decision.

We are looking for learning
opportunities internally and with

external partners. We learn from errors
rather than to blame. We see feedback
as a way to improve our performance.

We continuously analyse who are
our direct and indirect stakehold-
ers and their needs. We adopt an
exploratory and impartial attitude to
propose measures for their prob-
lems, needs and opportunities.

Our decisions are made with
impartiality, integrity and objectivity.
Our loyalty to the organisation and
each other is essential to achieve our
mission. We resolve conflicts based

on mutual respect.
We value the diversity of our
team and encourage a supportive

cooperation among all staff without
distinction striving for excellence.

ERA is a good place to work with a
strong sense of belonging, pride and
fulfilment.

We define our priorities and monitor
them in a transparent manner.
We evaluate the effects of all our
actions on staff and stakeholders.
This serves as input to drive future
improvement.

In the allocation of resources, we
primarily consider ERAS priorities
while caring for the wellbeing
off staff and the impact on the
stakeholders.

We adopt an innovative spirit con-

sidering rules as a tool and not an

objective. We reward performance
at all levels.

10 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026.


--- Page 13 ---
Organisational cultural enablers: Attributes

INTERACTING                           FORMALISING                                                                  REINFORCING

Teamwork                                                   Roles                                                            vats                                                .
«)        and collaboration                                   and responsibilities                                   Communication                                   Leading by example
Collaboration within and across               Roles, responsibilities and authorities            Information is openly shared within              Managers exhibit behaviours that
organisations is nurtured.                       are understood and accepted.                       and across organisations.                                set the standard.

GD)    Interpersonal values          @)   Organisational design          @) Competence management

Management intervention

Trust, respect and openness perme-             Organisational structures support              Competence management ensures              Managers ensure that incentives,

ate the organisation and character-               the achievement of mission and                   a knowledgeable workforce.                 sanctions and recognition reinforce

ise inter-organisational relationships                   organisational excellence.                                                                                behaviours and outcomes that
at all levels.                                                                                                                                                          support the achievement of mission

and organisational excellence.

@)    Regulatory relationships                @)     Organisational systems                @)              Soft skills                                              HOF expertise
Healthy regulatory relationships exist            Processes, tools and documentation             Leadership and non-technical skills               Human and organisational factors,
and ensure that the accountability               support the achievement of mission                   are systematically developed.                    including frontline experience, are
remains with the Agency                       and organisational excellence.                                                                            systematically considered during

design and change.

MISSION STATEMENT | 11

--- Page 14 ---
Through its mission and actions, the Agency is committed to contribute to the EC Political
guidelines:

™ a European Green Deal

™ an economy that works for people
™ a Europe fit for the digital age

™ a stronger Europe in the world

The Agency will support the EC agenda to ensure sustainable, safe, affordable, and acces-
sible transport and to strengthen railways’ role in the transport mix, in line with its mission
and mandate.

12 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 15 ---

--- Page 16 ---
General context

14|SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Transport is an essential part of the European integration, especially given its contribution
to the functioning of the free movement of services, goods, and people. Transport also
represents around 9% of the EU gross added value and directly employs around 11 million
workers ('), therefore representing an important sector for society at large. EU transport
policies have been developed according to the key principles of safety, sustainability, resil-
ience, connectivity, and efficiency.

Through its long-term vision for the transport sector and European society, the European
Commission published in 2020 the Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy with a detailed
action plan of 82 initiatives. With this strategy, the Commission presents how the EU trans-
port system will achieve its needed green and digital transformation and become more
resilient. As outlined in the European Green Deal, the result will be a 90% cut in carbon
emissions by 2050. Regarding the rail sector, the following targets have been set:

®@ Traffic on high-speed rail will double by 2030
®@ Rail freight traffic will increase by 50% by 2030 and double by 2050

™ By 2030, rail and waterborne-based intermodal transport will be able to compete
on equal footing with road-only transport in the EU

The European Union Agency for Railways will support the European Commission, in line
with its accountability ceiling, in achieving these goals, in particular through the further
development and effective functioning of a Single European Railway Area without fron-
tiers.

The 2024-2026 programming period for the Agency involves two different types of activ-
ities:

四 The policy tasks contributing to the implementation of Union legislation by de-
veloping a common approach to safety on the Union rail system and by enhanc-
ing the level of interoperability on the Union rail system, taking into account the
policy priorities identified in the Strengthening Plan and implemented through
the Strengthening Action Plan 2023-2027.

| The fully fledged performance of the Agency’s tasks as EU-wide authority for
safety certification, vehicle authorisation and ERTMS trackside approval, along with
other tasks in the field of railway safety and interoperability as foreseen in the Tech-
nical Pillar of the Fourth Railway Package.

The Agency continues to implement its work programme following the principles of the
intervention logic, in line with the guidelines provided by the Network of EU Agencies.
The intervention logic supports the Agency by emphasising the desired changes and the
road to its achievement. It is also a thinking process supporting the Agency to design,
reconsider, and adapt its outputs to the most effective one for a determined outcome.

The Agency also strives to increase its efficiency in delivering the outcomes and impacts
expected by EU citizens. In light of the above, the work programme of the Agency (in its
multi-annual and annual planning) is organised around seven strategic statements, which
project the Agency's role in relation to its stakeholders, complemented by two transver-
sal strategic statements, which capture the Agency's governance and support functions.
These strategic statements have been in place since the adoption of SPD 2022-2024 and
are extremely important, as they show the direction of travel on which the Agency plans to
embark in order to make railways work better for society, subject of course to its remit and
accountability ceiling. The concrete Agency work, represented by projects and services
with concrete outputs, is organised by grouping the projects and services which together
can contribute to the outcomes and impacts stated in a particular strategic statement.

In addition, SPD 2024-2026 will follow and align itself with the actions and resource allo-
cations detailed in the Strengthening Action Plan adopted by the MB in November 2022.
The seven priority areas will be highlighted in the annual section and their importance

()_ https://european-union.europa.eu/priorities-and-actions/actions-topic/transport_en


--- Page 17 ---
will be reflected both in terms of FTE and budget allocation. Of course, the Agency will
remain flexible and redeploy resources if needed but this innovative approach provides
a roadmap for all stakeholders regarding the areas on which the Agency will focus in the
coming years.

Thanks to a joint effort with the European Commission and the support from the Man-
agement Board, the Agency was granted 12 additional TAs to its establishment plan to
implement the Strengthening Plan. However, these additional resources must be financed
within the existing budget envelope, with no additional subsidy allocation, which creates
a budgetary pressure on the Agency. The Agency proposes in SPD 2024-2026 a robust
budget allocation, which copes with this pressure and provides resources for different
essential activities. However, the budget is based on the assumption that the EC draft
budget proposal will be confirmed at the end of the EU budget negotiation cycle. Any cut
applied to this envelope would jeopardize the basic business continuity for the Agency's
functions and will affect the level of ambition and commitment for the proposed activities
in 2024.

The Agency will pay significant attention to a regular monitoring of the SPD implemen-
tation in terms of outputs, resource consumption and revenues, which can allow for agile
responses and possible adaptation of its work programme. The Agency will continue to
work together with the pool of experts for the mutual benefit of the cooperation between
the Agency and the NSAs. This cooperation may also help the Agency to tackle capacity
shortages, as well as language skills gaps. In addition, the Agency will strive for contin-
uously improving its efficiency in delivering the expected outputs, as well as its overall
performance in contributing to the expected outcomes and impacts.

GENERAL CONTEXT | 15

--- Page 18 ---
ll. Multi-annual programming
2024-2026


--- Page 19 ---
Multi-annual work programme 2024-2026

Structure of the multi-annual programme 2024-2026

The structure of the Agency's multi-annual work programme is organised according to 9
strategic statements:

| Strategic Statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational
barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail, assets can be reused
throughout Europe.

| Strategic Statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an envi-
ronmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will be favoured as a
transport mode by the new generations.

| Strategic Statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as
a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be ensured, including multi-leg tick-
eting.

| Strategic Statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of
transport for its users and workers.

| Strategic Statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergen-
cy situations.

| Strategic Statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive
as a mode and as a sector.

| Strategic Statement 7 - The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA
authorisations will be globally recognised.

| Strategic Statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient gov-
ernance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the best value for money to
citizens and business in the EU

| Strategic Statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performant working environ-
ment, based on high quality motivated resources and a collaborative behaviour.

Following guidance from the EU Agencies’ network on the SPD, the Agency proposed for
SPD 2023-2025 to use the intervention logic on these strategic statements to identify im-
pact and outcomes. With SPD 2024-2026, the Agency proposes to look at a new concept:
intermediate outcome. Given that outcomes are quite difficult to influence directly from
outputs, the concept of intermediate outcomes is interesting given its more direct link
with the Agency and its influence on outcomes.

* Accountability ceiling

Intervention
logic

Level of
influence

The Agency has therefore started to develop intermediate outcomes in each strategic
statement. For intermediate outcomes, a set of common interventions was defined by
the Agency:

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 17,

--- Page 20 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Building knowledge                                                 Monitoring and analysing

ERA / sector builds non-existing knowledge                     ERA monitors the sector and its progress
Regulating                                                     poclnite,     f     /reink

EU laws and regulations are put in place to          一【一   ton  " Weth en rset  i oe he railway
achieve the desired outcome                                eee   e current status In the rallway

@ Knowledge sharing
4         = ERA shares knowledge with the sector (i.e.
training, reports, etc)

18 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

These types of interventions will help structure the multiannual work programme and as-
sess where additional work is most needed to achieve the desired outcomes. The multian-
nual section will also reflect the results of the MB workshop on SPD 2024-2026 which took
place in June 2022.

In addition, it should be noted that the arbitration exercise for the year 2024 was further devel-
oped and intensified. Indeed, it followed the key principles and areas of priorities detailed in
the Strengthening Action Plan. In addition, the Agency prioritised through the identification
of the anticipated added value of activities, as well as their potential contribution towards the
desired outcomes. The Agency followed a data-driven approach, looking at previous year’s
resource consumption, as well as the deliverables description for each project / service.

Content of the multi-annual programme 2024-2026

For its 2024-2026 work programme, the Agency considers the possible ways of balancing
the demand for its authority work on one hand and the ambition level for the priority areas
detailed in the Strengthening Plan, on the other hand. The authorisations, certificates and
approvals issued by the Agency have a direct impact on the functioning of the rail sector
and bring much added value in terms of safety and interoperability.

Furthermore, subject to additional resources, the Agency intends to implement, together
with Member States, a Priority Country Programme (PCP) which is a strategic initiative that
aims to assess and monitor the state of railway safety and interoperability legislation im-
plementation in Member States providing a comprehensive picture of railway safety and
helping the MS to identify areas for improvement.

The focus of this programme will be on the legal set-up and the capability of the organisations
within the Member States to take up the various responsibilities under railway safety and in-
teroperability legislation, both at authority as well as operational level. Furthermore, also the
Member State responsibility under EU legislation will be in the scope of the assessments.

In this perspective, the Agency has additionally developed a robust business case for the
development of a supporting Information Sharing System (ISS) demonstrating the expected
benefits, clarifying the additional resources needed to develop, deploy, and maintain the ISS
as an IT solution and providing a detailed timetable for implementation spanning from 2024
to 2029. The objective of the ISS initiative is to improve railway safety in the European
Union through the sharing and analysis of relevant safety information, supported
by a pro-active, performing and technology-proof system of data exchange.

In addition, the strategic role in policy development, research and innovation, and ad-
vice provided by the Agency is recognised as highly important and should continue to
be strengthened. The cooperation with the Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking is a strategic
long-term activity aimed at ensuring alignment between the EU regulatory framework on
railways and efficient EU funding of rail research. Furthermore, this will continue paving
the way for the inclusion of new technologies in the Tsls and, pending their adoption, in
technical opinions of the Agency. It is equally important to highlight the possible role of
the Agency to monitor and support the adequate implementation of the existing legal

--- Page 21 ---
frameworkthrough a harmonised level of maturity both at the levels of operators and na-
tional authorities. To make its operations always more efficient and effective, the Agency
will continue to implement to its full extent the continuous improvement approach to
its project management and make sure that its resources are deployed in those activities
where it can have the highest impact and added value for the railway sector and the EU
citizens. The Agency will also continue to develop its workstream on cybersecurity and
will liaise with ENISA to explore future scope for cooperation. Following the cybersecurity
regulation, the Agency will need to increase its resources spent on this item, which is re-
flected in the Annual Work Programme.

The breakdown of FTE and budget distribution by Strategic Statement over the 2023-2026
period are shown in the following charts.

Figure 1: FTE distribution

2027

2026

2025

2024

0         10        20        30        40        50        60        70        80        90
是 Stst1    I Stst2&3     0 stst4     ~ Stst5    有Stst6 §Stst7 ff Ststs    > Stst9

Figure 2: Budget distribution by Strategic Statement (€)

1
2027

2026

2025

2024

0                     1000 000                2000 000                3 000 000               4000000                5 000 000
J Stst1 J Stst2&3     用 Stst4    | StstS ESstst6 = J Stst7 目Stst8    ) Stst9

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 19

--- Page 22 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

20 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

The following table lists the main Key Performance Indicators for 2024:

Strategic                   Key Performance Indicator                              Target
Statement

1
1
1

283

© ©: © ©

© © © ©

Inclusion in TSls of requirements from NRs
Dissemination on TSls

CCSTSI- maintenance and operational activities
No. of NoBo audits performed per year

Register's related service requests by customers
processed (reply provided to customer)

Issuing SSC / VA/ ERTMS TA - Proportion of
decisions taken according to the legal framework
deadlines

ERA Technical Opinion(s) addressing future
development of RINF Regulation and associated
references to the ERA Vocabulary further ensuring
IMs' implementation of new parameters

No. of NSA audit performed
Management of the Group of Analysts

Delivery of the activities as planned in the
Communication & Dissemination Plan and at
least annually report on those activities to MB.
% Of the annual appropriations committed

% Execution of carry over payment
appropriations

% Payments made by contractual deadline

Output achievement rate

Implementation of the Strengthening Action Plan

Staff engagement survey

% Implementation of the establishment plan

% Implementation of the external personnel (?)
plan

Staff turnover
% Availability of the core ICT systems

Service Desk users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/
Excellent” rate

33% of introduced CRs
Closed
4 workshops organised
Publication of CCS TSI
Application guide
15
Within 10 working days, as
determined in the service
level agreement

100%

T1 2024

9

Implementation of GoA
workplan during CSM
ASLP phase |

Delivered as planned

98%
>95%

95%
Increase of achievement
rate to the previous year
Implemented following
the SAP deadlines
Odd years: SES organised,
action plan developed
and approved/ Even years:
closing of at least 70% of
the follow-up actions from
the action plan
>98%

>98%

Less than 5%
95%

>70%

全

CA+ SNE combined


--- Page 23 ---
In the field of Railway Interoperability, the Agency has identified so far six intermediate
outcomes that it can actively influence through its portfolio of TSIs, ERTMS, National rules,
and Registers services. They are essential components, which will lead to the achievement
of the strategic statement. The already identified intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. ERTMS is fully implemented on rolling stock by all Railway Undertakings

2. ERTMS is fully implemented on railway infrastructure by all Infrastructure Managers
3. All railway rolling stock is TS! compliant by all RUs across the EU. (exc. TAP/TAF & OPE)
4. All railway infrastructure is TS! compliant by all IMs across the EU

5. National rules (rolling stock & fixed installation) are harmonised across the EU

6. All relevant railway-related data is shared in an open and transparent way so that it
is utilisable and useful for the sector

Of course, this list will continue to evolve in the future to include additional intermediate
outcomes, as the Agency continues to pursue its full implementation of the intervention
logic.

Following the results of the MB workshop in June 2022 on SPD 2024-2026, where the Man-
agement Board expressed its desire for the Agency to propose more knowledge sharing
activities, such as training, and other dissemination activities, the Agency will strengthen
its activities in this domain. Such activities will be coordinated by the ERA Academy, being
the established knowledge sharing vehicle of the Agency. While being part of Strategic
Statement 7, the ERA Academy activities, by their nature, serve all strategic statements of
the Agency.

The Agency will also continue to deliver on its role as sole body responsible for issuing
multi-Member-State authorisations, certifications, and approvals. The Agency will contin-
ue performing its tasks in full partnership with the NSAs. In addition, the links between
authorisation, certifications, and approvals by the Agency and the supervision by the NSAs
will be strengthened. The Agency will also continue to drive further the harmonisation
towards the Single European Railway Area, ensuring the path towards technical and oper-
ational interoperability. The advancement of the System Pillar and the Agency's inputs in
the matter will further support harmonisation.

The lessons learnt through the issuing of VAs, ERTMS trackside approvals and from the
monitoring of NoBos will be used to capture continuous improvement opportunities for
the technical specifications and to the authorization procedures. The experience in issuing
safety certificates will be used to better steer the safety related policy making, so railway
safety will never be misused again as a barrier. More specifically, the work on NoBo moni-
toring will be reinforced in 2024, with additional resources dedicated to this activity, in line
with the direction given in the Strengthening Plan.

The stability of the TSls, together with a successful cleaning up of the remaining national
rules are the foundation of seamless operations across Europe and for an increas-
ingly effective authority function, reinforcing the added value of a European mindset in
the EU railway system. In 2024, the Agency will continue to work on the cleaning-up of
national technical and safety rules, as well as those on fixed installation and ERTMS. This
cleaning-up is an important step towards delivering a truly harmonised EU rail system. The
Agency will continue to focus on the removal of redundant national rules (operational
and technical), the harmonisation of the remaining rules and the development of AMOCs.

In 2023, the Agency has finalised the cleaning up of the national rules for vehicles. The
Agency has further identified the national rules that should be transferred into the TSls by
means of further harmonisation, specific cases and closing of open points. This transfer
will take place as of 2024 by means of Change Requests and will result in a significant
reduction of the national rules.

Strategic Statement 1

Ther    Ino long

technical and operatio
to the fre
and

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 21

--- Page 24 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

22 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

™ Close 33% of the change requests following the national technical rules which led
to their inclusion in TSls;

™ Continue to assess NSR set-up in Member States.

When it comes to dissemination, the Agency agreed on a communication plan for the TSIs
implementation. This plan consists of a Q&A set of information, available on the ERA web-
site, the follow-up of the webinars already performed in 2023 and workshops. The Agency
plans to organise 4 workshops in 2024.

As part of the next TSI revision, the Agency will work for reducing further the existing spe-
cific cases of Member States on top of the harmonised technical specification contained
in TSI. Even if the transfer of the cleaned national rule into the TSls will lead to potential
increase of new specific cases, the Agency's priority remains to work on EU harmonisation
of checks and tests. By end 2024, the Agency will deliver an impact assessment on the TSI
specific cases and their temporary duration.

As part of the maintenance of the National Rules, the Agency will support the Member
States in the review of their National Rules against the new requirements of the TS! Pack-
age 2023. In 2024 the Agency will introduce a CCM process that will control the addition of
new National Specific Parameters (NSPs). In parallel we will seek to establish the complete
list of current NSPs, use best efforts to start the clean-up/Validation of current NSPs and
propose a timeline for cleaning the list that matches the resourcing and priorities of the
Agency work progamme.

Of course, seamless operations also mean exchanging data, a process on which the Agen-
cy will continue to contribute by facilitating the data exchange for, among various pur-
poses, authorization, registration, and route compatibility checks, based on the linked data
approach. The Agency acknowledges the clear, shared ambition to drive the development
of the digital agenda and in 2024 will implement in full the requirements set out in the
recent RINF regulation amendments, including the application guide that will support the
implementation on the ground. In parallel the Agency is working on the proof of concept
for a digital route book and in particular identifying the supporting infrastructure data
needed for route books. The ISS tool to support the implementation of the CSM ASLP reg-
ulation will be built on the extension of the ERA Ontology. Whilst the funding to develop
the application layer has not yet been secured the Agency is preparing the development
of the Ontology for agreement in early 2024. The announced evolution of the Telematics
TSls is recognised as is the financial support of the Commission for this work. The work
however is contingent on successful procurement in 2024 and in the absence of the re-
quired internal resources must be considered at risk, at least until the successful outcome
of the procurement has been secured.

The Agency will also assess mature innovation products, with a clear potential for market
uptake. In this context, the Agency will focus on exploring emerging needs such as:

®™ Better coordination of traffic management EU-wide, including, but not limited to,
planning, capacity management, and emergency responses

Increased and improved offer for passengers and freight in the railway sector

Improved operations through the adoption of automatic translation systems and
training for operators in their native language. This would enhance the railway sys-
tems resilience to interoperability issues and increase cross-border traffic.

The objective is to make the railway system more resilient to interoperability issues and
increase the cross-border traffic.

When it comes to ERTMS, after the publication of the CCS TS! 2023/1695 including the
new set of ERTMS specifications (being ETCS Baseline 4 Release 1, RMR GSM-R Baseline
1 Maintenance Release 1 + FRMCS Baseline 0; ATO Baseline 1 Release 1), the focus for
2024-2026 will be on the implementation of the new CCS framework. In addition, a fur-
ther harmonisation through TSls will focus on telematics, security aspects, national rules
harmonisation and innovations such as new materials, new on-board sources of energy

--- Page 25 ---
based on the results provided through the System Pillar work. A CCS TSI amendment will
be required which mainly addresses the SUBSET-153 and the necessary testing specifica-
tions (SUBSET-076 for ETCS and SUBSET-151 for ATO). In addition, there will be a technical
opinion providing the delivery of the FRMCS V2 specifications. A CCS TSI application guide
will be drafted with the focus on the changes in the CCS TS! implementation framework,
in particular the new transition and migration schemes included in the CCS TSI. In order to
apply the specifications maintenance framework, the Agency will deliver an ERTMS Base-
line Compatibility Analysis report which includes the answers of the ERA questionnaires.

The service ‘Management of Innovation and long-term evolution of the Agency’ will con-
tinue to steer the research & innovation policy of the Agency and its future development.
It will also be in charge of coordinating the Agency's input to the work on the System Pillar.
The Agency will ensure technical assistance to the Commission, as guardian of interoper-
ability and safety, and as system authority for ERTMS & telematics. This will boost harmo-
nisation of operations, subsystems, and components, leaving the practical aspects to the
industry, assuming an appropriate level of oversight. The Agency will continue to identify
related research needs and assess mature innovation products, with a clear potential for
market uptake, in order to reflect them into the technical specifications.

四                                            Outcome indicators

1    Harm-onisation and reduction of Member-State specific National rules (both national
safety rules and national technical rules) via a Single Rules Database.

2   Number of international passenger/freight trains at selected border stations
(interoperability reports)

3 | Number of hours spent at cross-border operations

4 | ERTMS trackside deployment in the EU

5 | Vehicles equipped with ERTMs in the EU

6    Number of open type 3 issues when issuing VA and TA/ overall number of certificates
issued

7    Number of VA and TA issued with reduced validity period/ overall no. of certificates
issued

8 | Number of data consumption of registers

Resource envelope
FTEs                              80.08                                81.87                                81.08
Budget (3)                € 3,766,092                     € 4,205,967                     € 4,198,123

(°)_ This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on ERTMS TA and Vehicle authorisa-
tions.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 23

--- Page 26 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Strategic Statement 2 &3

24 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

The Agency is playing a pivotal role in supporting the transformation of the European
transport system towards decarbonised, interoperable, and safe transport modes based
on multi-modal integration (Maas).

In 2023, the Agency played a key role for driving the data and digitalisation agenda for
railways, based on the linked data pilots and the revision of TAP/TAF TSI. Those elements
are particularly relevant in a multi-modal context as they enable that integration in terms
of ticketing and timetables which has been preventing the effective development of rail
as the backbone of a multi-modal and international transport.

The Agency has identified for this Strategic Statement two intermediate outcomes, which
will support the achievement of the overarching statement. There are the following ones:

1. TAP is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, ticket vendors), it is actu-
ally used as the main channel of information exchange and the ticketing is integrat-
ed in the multimodal environment with other transport modes

2. TAF is implemented by all relevant railway actors (IMs, RUs, WKs, CTOs) and it is actu-
ally used as the main channel of information exchange

Of course, TAF and TAP TSI will also be in scope for some intermediate outcomes already
identified under strategic statement 1. Additional intermediate outcomes will be identi-
fied in the future to further implement the intervention logic within the Agency.

For the period 2024-2026, the Agency will still be a top player in ensuring the right frame-
work for the data and information exchange related to assets and services (includ-
ing ticketing data), based on linked data, universal data identifiers and more and better
data exchanged between operators and customers. This will ensure a seamless exchange
of data with other modes of transport, thus allowing the customers to benefit from a com-
prehensive logistics chain or the mobility-as-a-service, respectively.

While specifications for infrastructure description related data used in the register of in-
frastructure (RINF), respectively for information exchange in telematics applications, were
developed for different purposes, they now appear to be inconsistent between one an-
other in the context of their integration into the European Mobility Data Space (EMDS) for
which the ERA Vocabulary has been set as building block for rail. Corresponding alignment
and linking of rail data for infrastructure description constitutes both an internal and ex-
ternal challenge for the Agency that will be addressed through the work of the Agency
on the review of the governance of location coding in the context of the review of TSls
on telematics applications and development of the RINF Regulation and associated RINF
application.

Moreover, the Agency is a publisher in the open data portal, with 13 datasets published.
Currently, the Agency is developing the strategic direction for linked data under strategic
statement 8, while exploring the mainstreaming of this approach to other registers and
databases. Once moved from a strategic development concept to a mainstreamed ap-
proach, this stream of work will be covered under strategic statement 2 and 3. In addition,
the TAF TSI will provide the data communication requirements for the transparent and
efficient traffic management and train operations system of the future including also (i)
first and last mile logistic segments involving intermodal actors (operators, terminals) and
(ii) linkage to other modes of transport (road, waterborne). This will also contain the en-
hanced simple and smart tracking of trains, wagons and consignments. The same TSI will
also include additional requirements for the setting up of LaaS starting from consignment
order (intermodal compliant), train operation preparation and ending in well-predicted /
efficient delivery of trains, wagons and consignments to the business partners.

Concerning the environmental sustainability of the railway system, the Agency will contin-
ue to deliver support and assistance to the EC on rail and sustainability with annual topical
reports, as well as for the coordination of transport of dangerous goods by rail,
recognising of course the supporting essence of the Agency's role in the matter.

--- Page 27 ---
Outcome indicators

1    The level of implementation of TAF and TAP TSI as monitored through the annual
“Safety and Interoperability Progress Report”

2   Evolution in share of rail (both passenger and freight) in the EU's transport market
compared to air, road or maritime transport

3 | GHG emission from rail compared with other transport modes (shares %)

Resource envelope
FTEs                                    2.95                                         2.95                                         2.95
Budget             € 42,538               € 42,538                €42,538

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 25.

--- Page 28 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Strategic Statement 4

26 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

In the field of Railway Safety, the Agency has identified 3 categories of intermediate out-
comes that it can actively influence through its portfolio of safety related projects and
services and that are essential pre-conditions to achieve the strategic statement 4. The
identified intermediate outcomes are as follows:

1. All railway operators — IM, RU, ECM - understand and accept their responsibility and
actively implement an SMS to control the risks of operational activities;

2. An increased performance of and trust in the different safety related control levels in
the system - ERA, MS, NSA, ASBO, ECM CB, accreditation, recognition, NIB;

3. Safety and safety management/performance related data is shared in an open and
transparent way;

Up until now the Agency has invested most of its efforts in building knowledge and reg-
ulating, while not sufficiently supporting the railway sector in the actual implementation
of the legislative framework. The following years of the Agencys work programme will
focus more on the actual implementation by supporting the sector through knowledge
sharing, by better understanding the issues the sector is facing when implementing the
legislative framework, by reinforcing the expected outcome where possible and enforcing
it where necessary. Within this framework of intermediate outcomes and interventions for
statement 4 the Agency will continue to focus on:

. Supporting Member States in developing, adopting and repealing national legis-
lation and strengthening NSAs'and NIBs capacity, in line with principles and legal
acts promoted by the EU. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/ reinforcing)

N

. Enhancing railway safety through positive safety culture and integration of
human and organisational factors and on the harmonisation of the safety
approach, partly through SSC applications. (sharing knowledge/ monitoring/
reinforcing)

w

. Monitoring of NSAs and the follow-up of issues emerged during the 1* cycle of
audits (monitoring / reinforcing). By the end of the 2nd cycle, reflection as to wheth-
er changes to the current framework are needed will be made and appropriate pro-
posals to the MB will be put forward in 2025.

4. Learning lessons through the issuing of SSCs, the monitoring of NSAs, the review
of NIB accident investigation reports and the information exchanged during
NSA and NIB meetings and meetings organised with the AsBos, this will be used to
continuously improve the common safety methods, as well as the safety certifica-
tion procedures (knowledge building/ sharing knowledge / monitoring)

5. Strengthening the culture of risk management to identify risks and mitigating
measures but also opportunities to improve the efficiency of operations preserving
the safety level. This shall cover well-known operational scenarios, including interfaces
with other transport modes, and the adoption of emerging technology and related
relevant risks (e.g. cyber security, etc.). (knowledge building/ sharing knowledge)

6. Improving the structure, quality, and availability of safety relevant data while
making sure it is shared in an open and transparent way among all railway actors.
(knowledge building/ monitoring).

--- Page 29 ---
com        icator
Number of open type 3 issues when issuing SSC’s/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of SSC’s issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates
issued

Number of appeals made by operators in a year linked to SSC certification/ average
number of SSC’s issued per year

Percentage of NSAs audited with at least 1 deficiency (focused on deficiencies still
open from the 1st cycle). Note: this is a rolling indicator

NSA Monitoring: number of deficiencies still open (follow-up of the 1st cycle) vs
number of deficiencies of the 1st cycle (rolling indicator) Note: this is a rolling indicator
Number of peer reviewed NIB’s

Number of volunteering NIBs to participate in the NIB peer review/ total number of
NIBs (on a yearly basis)

Resource envelope
FTEs                         32.78                           30.75                           30.31
Budget (4               € 1,258,487                    € 1,416,204                    € 1,268,927

“

This number includes the PoE and NSA costs for fees and charges activities on SSC.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 27

--- Page 30 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

The Agency is currently reviewing the strategic statement 5, especially as no projects has
been identified yet for the next three years.

Strategic Statement 5

Outcome
Under development

situations

Resource envelope

| |                2024                                2025                                2026
FTEs                                 0                                      0                                      0
Budget                       €0                              €0                             p.m.

28 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 31 ---
The Agency will endeavour to make sure that the rules and system specifications are
smart, proportionate and contribute to the competitiveness of the industry. It will also
make sure that the SSC, VA, and ERTMS TA processes are cost and time efficient, fostering
the entrance of new operators in the market.

As presented in previous strategic statements, the agency aims at evaluating the eco-
nomic impact of the vehicle authorisation and issuing of single safety certificate
processes on the railway sector, the impact of the TSIs as a package, of market open-
ing and competition and of modular interchangeability in the ERTMS system spec-
ifications. The Agency will assess interoperability and safety improvements from a
cost-effectiveness perspective, also considering efficiency and effectiveness of the
Agency's internal processes. The results of the assessments will be used to propose rec-
ommendations for improving the legal texts, as well as any non-regulatory instruments,
in the spirit of the Better Regulation principles. Building on the IA work in the past years,
particular attention will be given within the ESG on evaluating the IA practice and stake-
holder feedback on the IAs. In addition, the Management Board, NSA and NRB networks
will be regularly informed about the return of experience, lessons learnt and priorities for
the IA practice. Furthermore, the important work on women in transport, which should
lead to the strengthening of women’s employment and equal opportunities for women
and men in the transport sector will be pursued. Indeed, many studies have shown that
gender parity in the workforce increases the productivity and the cohesion of staff. In addi-
tion, gender parity increases diversity of views, which in itself brings innovative solutions.

Outcome indicators
Evolution in rail traffic in absolute terms
Proportion of rail vs road and air transport, for passenger and freight rail in the EU
Number of pax-km per passenger train-km
Number of tonne-km per freight train-km
Average ERTMS costs (trackside and on-board)

#
1
2
3
4
5

Resource envelope

FTEs                                    3.28                                       3.28                                       3.28
Budget                       € 80,400                           € 80,400                            €80,400

Strategic Statement 6

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 29

--- Page 32 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Strategic Statement 7

30 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

One of the objectives of the Agency is to become a global reference in the railway domain
for technical matters and build its reputation of a solid, resilient, and trustworthy organiza-
tion. To achieve that, the Agency will work on multiple fronts. It will support the EC in de-
signing, implementing, and monitoring the EU transport foreign policy. The Agency will
also contribute to international standardization by strengthening its cooperation with
European and international standardization organizations. The Agency will also
prepare dissemination contents and organise training sessions and other means of shar-
ing the precious knowledge it has gathered. Furthermore, the Agency will focus on the
EC priorities in terms of technical and geographical areas and will also provide the
requested analyses and support. When it comes to its international workstream, the
Agency will focus its international activities on the basis of broader strategic considera-
tions and following general approaches.

Focussing on training and dissemination, in 2024-2026, the Agency will continue to
strengthen its dissemination capabilities and tools, reflecting there the results of the MB
workshop on SPD 2024-2026. In addition, the Agency will propose a range of webinars
on a variety of topics under the expertise of the Agency and will continue to organise
EU-wide railway events.

Finally, the Agency will continue supporting the NSA, NIB and NRB Networks and facilitat-
ing interfaces between them, the European Commission, and the Agency where appro-
priate.

1  | Number of participants in ERA training sessions and other dissemination events

Resource envelope

FTEs                            11.02                              10.66                              10.51

Budget            € 1,419,298             € 1,195,713              1,388,100


--- Page 33 ---
In order to achieve the strategic statement 8, the Agency has identified six intermediate
outcomes that it will actively work towards in the following years through the related
portfolio of projects and services:

1. Digitalisation of the Agency (as strategic preparation work)

= Single source of data for internal access

= Single source of data for external access

= Data is only introduced once

= Data is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable & Reusable)

2. Staff understand the mission and vision of the Agency, internalise it and have the
flexibility, the ownership/ autonomy with their activities, and a clear mutual under-
standing of their roles and responsibilities to actively contribute to the strategic di-
rection of the Agency

3. The Agency has a sound and agile governance frarmework, whose processes and
administration favour clarity, efficiency and decision making at the right level.

4. The SPD process steers the Agency’ strategy and multi-annual work programme de-
velopment in an integrated, evidence-based, and coordinated manner as well as
the monitoring of its effectiveness. This can be achieved through interfacing with
the internal stakeholders owning the strategies and the external stakeholders (EC,
EB strategic calendar, etc).

wn

. SPD is the single reference (for internal and external stakeholders) for all critical tac-
tical information providing the overarching view on the implementation of the pro-
jects and services.

6. The Agency is a learning, ethical, legally complying organisation where the deci-
sion-making, the strong financial control, the monitoring and reporting processes
give the ED the assurance of best value for money.

As far as the digitalisation aspect is concerned, the Agency has acknowledged its
importance to ensure a sustainable development of railways in Europe as a competitive
mode of transport and has the ambition to become a reference for facilitating the mul-
ti-modal data exchange and queries, based on the data-centric architecture and the
linked data technology. The Agency aims at exploiting the potential of digitalization of the
sector to the largest extent in its operations and administration. The I&T strategy and the
interoperable data roadmap will boost the performance level of internal processes and
will allow to have modern systems such as OSS, Registers, etc. fully functioning according
to schedule and completely interoperable with commercial software solutions currently
adopted by the railway industry to support the operators in their daily business.

The other intermediate outcomes will be achieved also through the optimization of the
ERA planning, monitoring and reporting capabilities, to enhance the Agency's pro-
gramme, project, and service management framework together with the Single Program-
ming Document and the Consolidated Annual Activity Report. This will lead to an allo-
cation of resources based on impact and intended outcome, fostering the added value
created for the railway sector and an overall better performance of the Agency. An Action
Plan for the Strengthening Plan 2023-2027 is put in place, in close link to the SPD imple-
mentation and monitoring. With the Agency's organisational culture change project ‘Bet-
ter together at ERA, the Agency will continue to invest resources and time to boost and
refine the work environment and cooperation between staff members.

Through its communication activities, the Agency will design and implement actions to
increase ERA awareness of the railway system and the dynamics of the railway industry.
Moreover, the Agency will develop campaigns to provide EU citizens with relevant infor-
mation and data demonstrating the added value brought by the Agency to society.

Outcome indicators

1 | Budget discipline (% of deviation from annual budget)
2 | Data is FAIR, measured on a scale

Strategic Statement 8

citizens and business in the EU

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 31

--- Page 34 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Resource envelope
FTEs                  29.38                   31.14                   31.22
Budget                   € 808,416                      € 622,750                       622,750

32 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 35 ---
Clause 4 of the ERA Policy states that “People are our most valuable resource’ Coherently,
the Agency will implement the new HR strategy 2023-2027, offering clear and transparent
career paths to staff members, allocate enough resources to make sure that good perfor-
mance and success stories are adequately rewarded, and that skills and competencies are
appropriate for the Agency mission and kept up to date. Internal roles are not only defined
but also accompanied by a proper competency management system and communicated
externally so that interfaces are clear to the stakeholders. The Agency also acknowledges
the added value of diversity by implementing solutions to improve the gender balance in
management and operational roles and to widen the number of nationalities employed.

Outcome indicators

Staff satisfaction (evaluated through the Staff Engagement Survey or own survey with

1    the same scope and questions) (°)
Highly trained staff (9 (checked through dimensions training performance such as the
2 | evolution of hours recorded on training in MS Project, training budget, number of PIT
requests)
3 | HR strategy action plan progress
4 | Overtime (% worked above the 40 hours/week on a monthly basis, over 110%)
5 | Cloud migration - infrastructure migrated to the cloud
6 | ICT strategy action plan progress
Resource envelope
|
FTEs                         26.69                           26.94                           26.94
Budget                 € 3,867,625                   € 3,867,625                   € 3,867,625

(°) Resource permitting
(°) checked through dimensions training performance such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS

Project, training budget, number of PIT requests

Strategic Statement 9

The

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 33

--- Page 36 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

Human and financial resources —
outlook for the years 2024 — 2026

Overview of the past and current situation

Staff population overview 2022-2024

Table 1 - Human resources 2022-2024 (7)

2022                         2023             2024
Authorised            Staff
under the EU | population at | Authorised | Requested
Budget         31/12/2022

Human resources

Temporary Agents (TA)
Contract Agents (CA)

Seconded National Experts
(SNE)

Total staff

External staff financed from
agreements

Structural service providers

Complete tables are provided in Annex IV & Annex V.

Revenues 2022-2024

Table 2 - Revenues 2022-2024

Financial resources - Revenues             2022                2023                2024
(EUR)                          Budget ("")        Authorised        Requested
1. Fees and charges                7,038,812          10,856,649          11,913,156
2. EU contribution                26,278,423         27,418,274         28,645,912

3. Third countries

R
evenues    contribution (= EFTA)              656,721   801315  |]    1,022,594
4.45.+6.+7. Other                  10,000                     .                     .
general revenues
Total                                                                                   33,983,956            39,079,238            41,581,662

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

(’) Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcounts), except for “External staff financed from agreements” where
FTE is used to ensure compliance with Table 17- Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant,
contribution or service-level agreements in Annex IV.

(°) Of which 28 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

(°) Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

(#) 2022 budget reflects the transfers and amendments as of November 2022 (comment valid for Annex II & III)

34 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 37 ---
Expenditures 2022-2024

Table 3 - Expenditure 2022-2024

Fi          resources — Expenditure          2022               2023               2024
(EUR)                           Budget (")        Authorised        Requested

Tite 1 = Staff                 21,966,714       23,473,646       22,654,387
expenditure

Title 2 — Infrastructure
and operating                       1,862,438           2,096,800           2,146,913
expenditure

Title 3 - Operational
expenditure

Total EU contribution
(Titles 1 + 2 + 3)
Total Fees and charges           7,038,812         10,856,649        11,913,156
Total                                 33,983,956     39,079,238     41,581,662

Expenditure
3,115,992           2,649,143           4,867,206

26,945,144           28,219,589           29,668,506

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

The Agency will need to constantly monitor the budget allocation for 2024 in line with its
ambition of deploying the envelope of 12 TAs envisaged in the SAP. The 2024 budget can
be further impacted by the evolution of inflation and salary indexation. Several precau-
tions have been taken into account, including some cross-cutting decrease in operational
expenses for all activities, which generate a very high pressure on the budget planning.
The Agency will continuously inform the EC and the MB on the budget implementation in
2024 and on any potential pressures arising during the year.

Outlook for the years 2024 - 2026

Growth of existing tasks:

In 2024, following the endorsement of the Strengthening Plan and the allocation of 12 ad-
ditional Tas to the Agency to implement it, the Agency will dedicate these resources to the
following priority domains, in line with the Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-2027:

a.) NSA monitoring

bJ) NoBo Monitoring

c) ERTMS and radio communication evolution

d) TSls

e.) The cleaning of national rules (technical, operational and safety rules)
f) CSM ASLP (引

g.) Digitalisation of the Agency's registers

(2) 2022 budget reflects the transfers and amendments as of November 2022 (comment valid for Annex II & III)

(3) Up until now, CSM ASLP has been resourced by decreasing the allocation of other Safety projects. The Strength-
ening Plan foresees an additional allocation of staff to CSM ASLP, a section of which will be used to allow the
aforementioned policy areas to recover their original staffing allocation.

MULTI-FANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 35

--- Page 38 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

36 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Resource programming for the years 2024 - 2026

Financial resources

Table 4 - Financial resources - Outlook 2024-2026

Financial resources       2024     2025     2026
(EUR)         Requested   Planned    Planned

1. Fees and charges               11,913,156         12,145,805          12,347,496
2. EU contribution                28,645,912         29,218,830         29,803,207
3. Third countries

R

evenues      contribution (= EFTA)             1,022,594          1,043,046          1,063,907

4.4+5.+6.+7. Other                        .                     .                     .
general revenues

Total                                                41,581,662       42,407,681       43,214,609
Te 1 -Sa                  22654387 | 23,135,596 | 23,705,022
expenditure
Title 2 — Infrastructure
and operating                       2,146,913           2,149,600           2,149,600

四       it       expenditure

xpenditure |=                  :

CE               4,867,206          4,976,680           5,012,491
expenditure
Total EU contribution
(Titles 1 +2 +3)                 29,668,506        30,261,876        30,867,114
Total Fees and charges          11,913,156         12,145,805         12,347,496

Total                                                41,581,662       42,407,681       43,214,609

Complete tables are provided in Annex Ill.

Human resources

Table 5 - Human resources - Outlook 2024-2026 (4)

Human resources              202%
Requested                  ERA estimates

Temporary Agents (TA)                              166 (9

Contract Agents (CA)                                 36 ("*)
Seconded National Experts (SNE)                4(")
Total staff                                         206

External staff financed from
agreements

Structural service providers

3                   p.m.                 p.m.

9       9       9

Complete tables are provided in Annex IV & Annex V.

(4) Expressed in terms of number of posts (headcounts), except for “External staff financed from agreements” where
FTE is used to ensure compliance with Table 11- Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agree-
ments in Annex IV.

() Of which 28 assigned to Fees and charges

(9) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

() Of which O assigned to Fees and charges

--- Page 39 ---
Strategy for achieving efficiency gains

The Agency is committed to continuously improving its functioning, streamlining its pro-
cesses, optimising the engagement of its staff, and allowing for the reallocation of re-
sources to the most important priorities. In the course of 2021, the Agency worked quite
intensively on efficiency gains. This work progressed until the end of 2021 and led to the
drafting of the Strengthening Plan, finalised, and endorsed by the Management Board at
the beginning of 2022. The purpose of the Strengthening Plan is to make the strongest
possible case in order to strengthen the Agency with resources matching the level of
ambition necessary for achieving the important EC policy objectives for rail, in an effective
and efficient manner, and benefit from high levels of ambition and efficiency within ERA’s
structure and methods.

With the document serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the
Agency received a proposed increase of 12 TAs in 2022. While the additional TA allocation
is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening Plan (12 TAs proposed out of the
22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed with the implemen-
tation of the Strengthening Plan.

Following the adoption of the aforementioned plan, the Agency prepared the Strength-
ening Action Plan (SAP) 2023-2027, which details the actions that will be carried out within
the next five years to strengthen the Agency's efficiency. The SAP 2023-2027 is organised
along the following components/objectives:

a.) Drive an optimal resourcing of the following policy priority areas, matched by pro-
portional outputs and outcomes, including efficiency gains:

= NSA and Nobo monitoring

” ERTMS and radio communication evolution
= TSl related work

= Clean-up of national rules

= CSM ASLP

= Digitalisation of the Agency's registers

b.) Maintain proper resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks,

c) Ensure a reduction in the Agency's administrative FTE allocation while maintaining
regularity and legality. This will be possible thanks no but not limited to:

= Aworkload analysis

= The Leaning of processes

= A training programme to facilitate the transition and provide the required
technical skills to staff moving from administrative tasks to operational ones

d.) Ensure the overall projected FTE evolution by 2027

e.) Ensure effective and efficient budget management (planning and execution), ap-
propriate risk management

In order to ensure active involvement from all units across the agency and to monitor
the implementation of the SAP, an internal task force has been set up in 2023. This task
force ensures optimal communication across the Agency on the SAP and its milestones,
as well as the implementation of key milestones. Finally, the Strengthening Action Plan has
been added to the Strategic Calendar of the Executive Board of the Agency. A rapporteur
has been appointed in 2023, who will support, guide, and monitor the implementation
throughout 2024-2026.

MULTI-ANNUAL PROGRAMMING 2024-2026 | 37

--- Page 40 ---
Multi-annual programming 2024-2026

38 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Negative priorities / decrease of existing tasks

Paused activities for the year 2024
™@ NSA Annual Performance review
™ Review of NIB accident investigation reports

Stretched and targeted outputs for the year 2024

™ The Agency has been working on the Common Safety Methods on the assessment

of Safety Level and Safety Performance for several years, following its mandate. It
also is one of the priorities of the Strengthening Action Plan. However, an informa-
tion sharing system is needed to prevent future accidents and improve safety as
a whole. The Agency does not have sufficient resources to create such tool. The
Agency has therefore developed a paper with the resources required to develop
and implement such tool, along with a timeline and the stages of implementation.
The Information Sharing System (ISS) would require an estimated 2,375,000 EUR
budget and a total of 8 FTEs. Based on substantial efforts, given the already very
stretched budget envelope, the Agency allocated 185,000 EUR from its budget in
2024 to carry out the preliminary work for ISS-Stage 1. This investment needs to
be complemented with the requested FTEs and budget (as per the dedicated SOS
paper submitted to the MB), in order to ensure the project materialises its outputs
and impacts.

The Agency will continue to work intensely on its NSA monitoring activities, as it is
one of the policy priorities highlighted in the Strengthening Action Plan. However,
there is a need to develop together with Member States a new Priority Countries
Programme (PCP) at EU level, with a broader approach including more railway
stakeholders such as Member States, NSA/NIB, RUs, IMs, AsBo, NoBo, Notifying
Authorities, National Accreditation Bodies and other checking bodies, and finally
other operational stakeholders such as ECM, and wagon keepers. The PCP has the
potential to provide a more holistic picture of railway safety and interoperability in
the Member State, and to bring further changes to improve safety across the EU.
In order to deliver this new initiative, the Agency would need an additional 50,000
EUR per year, along with 3 FTEs.

--- Page 41 ---
lI. Annual Work
programme 2024


--- Page 42 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

40 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Executive summary

The Annual Work Programme for 2024 details all the projects and services which will be
carried out to contribute to the Agency’s goals in the year. The structure of the Work Pro-
gramme has been organised against desired long-term outcomes, implementing there-
fore an effective multi-annual work programme with developed objectives, as well as the
intervention logic.

The annual work programme 2024 had been aligned to the priorities listed in the Agency's
Strengthening Plan and the corresponding implementing document (SAP 2023-2027),
which represents an anchor for the planning in SPD 2024 and the subsequent ones.

The Agency's efforts in 2024 are particularly focused on:

® Technical and operational barriers: The Agency will work towards the reduc-
tion of technical and operations barriers within the rail market through, among
others, the amendment of TSls to be aligned with the technical innovations, har-
monisation of national rules among MSs, continuous NoBo monitoring, the deliv-
ery of 4" Railway package activities (SSC, ERTMS TA, VA), and the deployment of
ERTMS

™ Safety: The Agency will strengthen safety on rail through the development of
a safety culture, the monitoring of National Safety Authority, the Common Safe-
ty Methods on Assessment of Safety Level and Safety Performance (within the
boundaries linked to the resource constraints for the information sharing system),
and other relevant projects.

| Data developments and ticketing: The Agency will continue to foster develop-
ments in the field of Linked data, as well as development under the TAP TSI. The
Agency will continue its work on databases and registers optimisation.

= Communication and dissemination: The Agency will increase communicating
and disseminating relevant information and knowledge to its stakeholders, as well
as organising events and showcase the interesting projects and developments
within the rail sector.

™ Good governance: The Agency will strive for governance excellence and effi-
ciency in all of its activities and will continue its efforts for improving budget exe-
cution rates and overall compliance and performance.

To best illustrate the alignment between SPD 2024 and SAP 2023-2027, the indicators and
targets which contribute to the Strengthening Action Plan are indicated with a ticked box
in the annual tables hereinbelow. Moreover, the number of FTEs linked to SAP 2023-2027
is also highlighted in a separate column.

--- Page 43 ---
Activities

Strategic statement 1 - There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail,

assets can be reused throughout Europe.

Expected outcome

Outcome indicators

Note: they will be further
developed in future SPDs

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources ('8)

Financial resources ('%)
Fee-based

* Technical barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail are eliminated
* Operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail are eliminated
* Allrail assets can be re-used across the EU

The expected outcomes are further detailed to the following intermediate outcomes more directly linked to the Agency's safety portfolio:

1. ERTMS is fully implemented on rolling stock by all Railway Undertakings

2. ERTMS is fully implemented on railway infrastructure by all Infrastructure Managers

3. Alll railway rolling stock is TS! compliant by all Rus across the EU. (exc. TAP/TAF & OPE)

4. All railway infrastructure is TS! compliant by all Ims across the EU

5. National rules (rolling stock & fixed installation) are harmonised across the EU

6. All relevant railway-related data is shared in an open and transparent way so that it is utilisable and useful for the sector

¢ Harmonisation and reduction of Member-State specific National rules (both national safety rules and national technical rules) via SRD
¢ Number of international passenger/freight trains at selected border stations (interoperability reports)

¢ Number of hours spent at cross-border operations

¢ ERTMS trackside deployment in the EU

。 Vehicles equipped with ERTMs in the EU

* Number of open type 3 issues when issuing VA and TA/ overall number of certificates issued

¢ Number of VA and TA issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued
¢ Number of data consumption of registers

70.05 FTEs + 10.03 additional FTE's from SAP implementation

€ 3,766,092 (out of which € 1,824,000 for NSA costs & € 212,004 for PoE costs)
Partially

(®) The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(8) The financial resources shown here only take into account the direct operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 41

--- Page 44 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

FTEfrom | Budget

Project Name            SP      assigned

Output indicator                                         Output Target

NoBos monitoring | 4.01         2.05         € 80,000               No. of reports for NoBos audit/inspection sent to NoBos for
nena                              At least 9 reports
comments after the onsite visit.
No. of reports for NoBos audit/inspection delivered                      At least 4 reports

Anew common framework for NoBos, DeBos and AsBo

V | assessment and monitoring set up by the Agency (new legal       Final draft agreed with EC as a basis for a future legislative

base may be needed)                                                      proposal
V¥__| Learning from NoBo monitoring/ Forum of best practices            Organised when the 1st audit cycle is at an advanced stage
V |No.of NoBo audits performed per year                                  15
Harmonising  ;        2.98        1.54         € 25,000              Increased harmonisation of operations - support EC with TDD       100% of EC requests answered
railway operations                                                        renewal

Maintenance of TS! OPE text (Manage CRs, manage issued
AMOCs, develop guidance, supporting COM)

v     Increased harmonisation of operations - implement new
structure for TSI OPE

Increased performance of and trust in MS as control level -

V |manage NSRs cleaning-up process 2.0 (compliance with TSI OPE
2023, incl. impact of TO, if relevant)

Vv     wicreased performance of SMS - draft new regulation of Type 5      Draft new regulation - and develop guidance/ training

TSls maintenance | 3.55        1.03         € 45,000                                                                                                      6 Working Party meeting days - CCM tool available for the
stakeholders

100% of requests treated
Phased implementation of new structure

100% of planned MS assessed (incl. impact of earlier TO if
relevant)

CCM process established to ensure the maintenance of the TSls

CR on Combined Transport                                                       CR closed
CRs on innovative solutions from ERJU                                CRs managed in line with ERJU input
TSI INF Revision                                                               TWG established and TSI structure agreed
TSI maintenance progress                                                     10 CRs finalised
Update on the guides on ERA website                                   All guides updated
oper dsseminaton activities, including conferences and         Provided
V |CCM ready for processing System Pillar                               CCM implemented for all requests
V |CREnergy measurements                                                     Closed
V |CR Noise of parked trains                                                      Closed
V |CRon platform/train interface                                        Closed
V |CRRIVWDangerous goods                                                          Closed
V |CRUnique Authorisations                                                         Specific Cases for coaches
V | CRs on Standards                                                            TO EN updates
V |TSlasaglobal standard                                                 International Strategy finalised
V _ |TSI Dissemination Workshops                                             4

42 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 45 ---
Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Learning from Tsls

Research and
Innovation (S)

Revision of VA
guides and
procedures

Revision of ERTMS
Trackside approval

Board of Appeal
(BoA)

Business helpdesk
VA, SSC and
ERTMS Trackside
approval

0.95

0.96

2.62

1.62

0.80

0.45

€8,550

€5,000

€ 8,000

€ 15,200

€ 52,250

_| Support to NOBOs

|Improvement plan

Support to EC (TO/Advice/Derogations/ NoBos) within agreed
deadlines

Europe's Rail JU projects of interest for the Agency monitored

Support to the Europe's Rail JU and cooperation with other
bodies on research

Proportion of problems detected during vehicle authorisation
activities (including pre-engagement and notifications) for which

Proportion of problems detected during vehicle authorisation

activities (including pre-engagement and notifications) for which
solutions are proposed

Proportion of problems related to vehicle authorisation activities
(including pre-engagement and notifications) reported by
stakeholders for which solutions are proposed

Proportion of major problems assessed with a decision following
the change control process

Issuance of findings and decisions of the Board of Appeal on
time, according to the Agency's role as the Registrar for the Board
of Appeal

Proportion of the requests on the Agency scope of work
addressed to the business helpdesk answered within 10 working
days for 2021

100%

Research projects with ERA level of interest 3 (high interest)
monitored with yearly report

100% of JU new projects analysed
At least one written communication on the Agency's research

needs to the relevant bodies

5 VA return of experience meetings

295%

Implemented

90%

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 43

--- Page 46 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Project Name

Manage ERTMS
long term
evolution

Delivery SSC, VA,
ERTMS Trackside
approvals

8.60

FTE from
SP

44 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Budget
assigned

€ 250,000

€ 15,000

Output indicator

CCS TSI - Enhanced framework
CCS TSI - Maintenance and operational activities
CCS TSI - Maintenance and operational activities
ERTMS - Enhanced framework
ERTMS - Enhanced framework

ERTMS - Maintenance and operational activities

ERTMS - Maintenance and operational activities

Support dissemination activities, including conferences and
traning

CCS TSI - Maintenance and operational activities

CCS TSI - Maintenance and operational activities (Support for
the EU-wide deployment of ERTMS, including economic impact
analysis to inform possible public investment prioritisation (e.g.
by CINEA))

CCS TSI - Enhanced framework- analysis on phasing out the
checks to prove the technical compatibility of on-board units
with different ERTMS trackside implementations and to achieve
harmonisation of engineering and operational rules for the SERA

Issuing ERTMS Trackside Approvals - Proportion of decisions
taken according to the legal framework deadlines

Issuing Single Safety Certificates - Proportion of decisions taken
according to the legal framework deadlines (for completeness
and assessment phases)

Issuing Vehicle Authorisation, including ERTMS on-board
assessments - Proportion of decisions taken according to the
legal framework deadlines (for completeness and assessment
phases)

Support dissemination activities, including conferences, training,
and webinars

Output Target

CCS TSI Amendment

Organisation of ERA-ENISA Cybersecurity conference
Organisation of ERTMS Conference

Delivery of SUBSET-153, SUBSET-076 and SUBSET-151
Delivery of Technical Opinion on FRMCS V2 specifications
Publication of the ERTMS BCA report (incl. results of ERA

questionnaires) according to TSI CCS point 7.2.10 - Specifications
maintenance

Update of ETCS generic handbook
Provided
Publication of CCS TSI Application Guide

Requests of CINEA- DG Move 100% assessed

CCS TSI Article 12 - analysis delivered according to the deadline
set in art. 12 CCSTSI

100%

100%

100%

Provided


--- Page 47 ---
FTEfrom | Budget
SP         assigned

Project Name

Output Target

Registers                                    € 664,000            CCM process established to ensure a harmonised maintenance     CCM tool available for the stakeholders
Operation and                                                          across all ERA Registers and TSls
Development                                                                Development of a cloud-based tool for CR management across

all TSls (incl. registers and various technical documents) ensuring | Q3 2025
amore user-friendly interface

Development of an approval workflow for VKM in SRM                  December 2024
Development of the RINF Application in accordance with Article | (1) End of testing phase Q2 2024; (2) End of deployment phase
6 of RINF Regulation (EU) 2019/777 (2023 amendments)             Q3 2024

ERADIS - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests,
document publication and users support

ERADIS - Release 6.0                                                       In production by Decemebr 2024
ERATV - % of submitted records published or clarification requested | 95%

ERATV - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and users

10 days

10 days
support
ERATV - Release 3.0                                                              100% approved CRs delivered
EVR - Avg. migration time of received local NVRs (data) migrated    6 months
to EVR
EVR - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests,                    10 days

lettermarking codes and users support
EVR - Release 4.0                                                            In production by December 2024
OCR - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and

Organisation Codes management                                         10 days

RINF - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests                    10 days

SAIT - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests and user support | 10 working days

SAIT - Release 2.0                                                                2024

SRD - Avg. processing time for ServiceDesk requests,

lettermarking codes and users support                                     10 days

SRD - Release 3.0                                                           In production by December 2024

VKMR - Vehicle Keeper Merking list publication                        Monthly publication

Setting-up and finalisation of a pilot with volunteering IMs

supporting the development of the RINF Application towards        Q2 2024

automated upload of data by IMs into RINF based on existing IMs’

data models

RINF data provision dasboard                                              Presented to EB and MB once a year
v      EVR - Agency becoming a registration entity for vehicles at the      Workflows put in place provided the EVR legal act was amended

EU level                                                                  accordingly

v      Exploratory work for Eurocontrol for railways, including the traffic

.           ，                                      Draft concept paper developed and discussed with EC
management and economic regulation aspects

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 45

--- Page 48 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Management
of Innovation
and Long-term
evolution of the
Agency

Executing VA

Executing TA
OSS releases
National

Technical Rules
management

3.00

18.85

1.80

1.88

1.30

0.70

€ 14,250

€ 1,847,556

€ 188,448

€ 545,838

€ 2,000

ERA contribution to the System Pillar activities
ERA use of outputs from EU Rail JU

Technological watch activity

Executing VA
Executing ERTMS TA

Proportion of significant problems detected during operation for
which solutions are available in a next release.

Examination of notified national rules for fixed installations

Examination of notified national rules for vehicle authorisation

SRD
Inclusion in TSls of requirements from NRs

At least 2 position papers / comments on SP documents
delivered

Mature CRs from the SP integrated into the ERA CCM process
Update of the compelling vision published on ERA website
before 31/12/2024

Legal deadlines and according to the process

Legal deadlines and according to the process

95%

100% of notified NRs assessed according to Art 25 and 26 of ERA
Regulation
100% of notified NRs assessed according to Art 25 and 26 of ERA

All rules in addition to TSsls migrated

33% of introduced CRs Closed

46 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 49 ---
Strategic statement 2 - Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and
will be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations.

Strategic statement 3 - Rail traffic will become seamless and MaaS (Mobility as a Service) and LaaS (Logistic as a Service) will be
ensured, including multi-leg ticketing.

Improved synergies with other transport modes, placing railways at the core of the new multimodal transport system
Sustainability of railways will be further enhanced and showcased

Rail is the preferred mode of transport of new generations

Seamless rail traffic

Mobility as a service and Logistics as a service are ensured

Multi-leg ticketing supports the new multimodal transport system in the EU

Expected outcome

Outcome indicators

The level of implementation of TAF and TAP TSI as monitored through the annual “Safety and Interoperability Progress Report"
Evolution in share of rail (both passenger and freight) in the EU's transport market compared to air, road or maritime transport

Note: they will be further

developed in future SPDs           © GHG emission from rail compared with other transport modes (shares %)
Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (7)                  2.85 FTE + 0.10 additional FTE's from SAP implementation

Financial resources (7!)                € 42,538

Fee-based                               No

(°). The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(2) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 47

--- Page 50 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget

assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Managethe
evolution of
Telematics
application for
freight (TAF TSI)

Green agenda

Manage the
evolution of
Telematics
application for
passengers (TAP
TSI)

TDG Coordination

0.10

0.59

0.10

€ 18,050

€ 4,038

€ 10,450

€ 10,000

Change requests included in TAF technical appendices,

Monitoring of the TAF TSI implementation - progress report on
Year -1

Recommendation about the revised TAF TS! delivered to DG
MOVE

Compliance assessment check requested for TSIs on telematics
applications to include interfaces with other regulations under
the aegis of ERA (e.g. OPETSI, RINF, ERA Vocabulary)        .
Participation to the Commission's meetings related to the Digital
Transport and Logistic Forum and eFTI Regulation

Annual topical report

Change requests included in TAP technical appendices,
according to the CCM process

Monitoring of the TAP TSI implementation - progress report on
Year -1

Recommendation about the revised TAP TSI delivered to DG
MOVE

Participation to the meetings related CEN/TC278/WG3__

_| Participation to the meetings related to the NAPCORE project

Compliance assessment check requested for TSIs on telematics
applications to include interfaces with other regulations under
the aegis of ERA (e.g. OPE TSI, RINF, ERA Vocabulary)

Progress with the specifications for multi-leg ticketing

Ontology extended to allow for data upload for the Inventory of
assets

No. of meetings where ERA supports the EC in accordance with
the AR art. 17.

Q1 2024

100% of compliance assessment reports produced in due time
(3 months)

Participation to the Commission's meetings related to the Digital
Transport and Logistic Forum and eFTI Regulation

Report published and event around the results of the report
organised

Q2 and 04 2024
Q2 2024

Q1/2024

60% participation based on priority topics
.60% participation based on priority topics

100% of compliance assessment reports produced in due time
(3 months)

Specifications finalised

End 2024

15

48 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 51 ---
Strategic statement 4 - Rail will be an increasingly safe and secure mode of transport for its users and workers.

¢ Improved safety and security on rail

。 Improved safety and security for rail workers

The expected outcomes are further detailed to the following intermediate outcomes more directly linked to the Agency's safety portfolio:
Expected outcome

7. All railway operators — IM, RU, ECM - understand and accept their responsibility and actively implement an SMS to control the risks of operational activities;
8. An increased performance of and trust in the different safety related control levels in the system - ERA, MS, NSA, ASBO, ECM CB, accreditation, recognition,
9. NIB;Safety and safety management/performance related data is shared in an open and transparent way;

* Number of open type 3 issues when issuing SSC’s/ overall number of certificates issued

* Number of SSCs issued with reduced validity period/ overall number of certificates issued

Number of appeals made by operators in a year linked to SSC certification/ average number of SSC’s issued per year

Percentage of NSAs audited with at least 1 deficiency (focused on deficiencies still open from the 1st cycle). Note: this is a rolling indicator

Note: they will be further               NSA Monitoring: number of deficiencies still open (follow-up of the 1st cycle) vs number of deficiencies of the 1st cycle (rolling indicator) Note: this is a rolling
developed in future SPDs              indicator

Outcome indicators

Number of peer reviewed NIBs
Number of volunteering NIBs to participate in the NIB peer review/ total number of NIBs (on a yearly basis)

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (?)                28.65 FTE's + 4.13 additional FTE's from SAP implementation
Financial resources (7?)                € 1,258,487 (out of which € 744,000 for NSA costs & € 134,484 for PoE costs)
Fee-based                               Partially

(2) The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(2) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 49

--- Page 52 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Output indicator

Output Target

|                            FTEfrom | Budget

Project Name                SP        assigned
NSA Monitoring | 462) 226 | €160,000 | _
implementation
Develop Safety        1.93                      € 41,500
Culture
Sustainable safety | 5.16                      € 36,250
management
Learning                1.35                       € 5,000
from safety
performance

50 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

KK

No, of audit reports delivered ssn
No. of audit reports sent to NSA for comments after the onsite
visit

Support dissemination activities, including conferences, training,
and webinars

Observation of NSA Supervision activities e.g. RUs where the
Agency has issued the SC

No. of NSA audits performed

Proper learning from the NSA monitoring

Delivery of the report on the development of a safety culture
according to Art. 29 (2) of Directive (EU) 2016/798

Strengthen ASBO control level - coordination of ASBO (meetings,
RFU development, etc.)

Strengthen ASBO control level - Development of assessment
scheme for Assessment bodies (CSM RA) and Collaboration with
EA/ IC (European cooporation for accreditation / Inspection
committee)

Strengthen ECM control layer - develop, deliver and maintain
guidance material on ECM certification

Strengthen ECM control level - coordination of ECM certification
bodies (meetings, RFU development, etc.)

Strengthen SMS - develop, deliver and maintain guidance
material on SMS (incl. app, website, etc.)

Strengthen SMS - develop, deliver and maintain guidance
material on TDG risk management

Strengthen SMS (TDG) - coordination of EUDG meetings

Strengthen SMS (TDG) - development of the Risk Management
Platform (RMP)

Strengthening NIB control layer - bilateral feedback provided to #
NIB (possibly to be combined with NIB peer review)
Strengthening SMS - study on the potential use of operational
data for safety management

At least 6

Provided on request

To be included in the NSA monitoring service, when relevant

9
Follow-up of deficiencies ensured

Report delivered

3 working group meetings organised, 3 technical meetings
organised, support material published/delivered

3 work group and 3 task force meetings organised

Support material published or delivered (in collaboration
with ERA Academy): Revision of the guideline initiation (to be
continued in 2025 and 2026), Data collection through ECM
survey

3 coordination meetings organised

Support material published or delivered (in collaboration with
ERA Academy)

3 EUDG Sub Group meetings organised (Harmonised scenarios,
Risk Management Platform development) organised, support
material developed

2 EUDG plenary meetings organised

RMP proof-of-concept/Beta V3.1; reference manual V3.1

100% delivered on request

study started


--- Page 53 ---
FTE from    Budget

Project Name            SP      assigned

Output indicator                                         Output Target

Revision of SSC        1.32                        € 8,000                % of change requests implemented following the decision from
guides and        the change control board to execute them during the year

possible improvement for ERA guides and procedures                          id       y          9                                  P          9

Common Safety                                   € 8,503                Support to Operators and Authorities                                       Satisfaction of railway stakeholders
Methods on                                                          Training activity                                                            Training material delivered and experienced
sessment                                                                                                    Technical Opinion on Annex | updated according to the lessons
of Safety Level                                         V | CSM Development                                                learned    p                  P               9
and Safety                       可              ae    cs     ae
Performance                                        V CSM | guidance/training        oe         Guide on ISS functioning published.
V_ | GoAV/JINS fast track procedure        oe        __......GOA/JNS proposal
¥ | GOAVINS normal track procedureGoA proposal &ERA follow-up report
_¥ | Management of the Group of AnalystsImplementation of GoA workplan during CSM ASLP phase |
ov     Support to implementation of CSM ASLP and ISS users (**)            Business support to ISS users
Support to NIB                                 € 14,250              ERA to attend as observer, at least remotely, to the meetings of     Attend to, at least, 50% of NIBs Peer Review meetings
Peer Review                                                                NIB Peer Reviewed
Report on the first peer review cycle                                            Report delivered
Integration of                                 € 10,000              Collaboration on HOE topics to build and share knowledge          HOF Collaboration with organisations and research institutes in
Human and                                                          |                                                                               _| railways and other safety domains _
Organisational
Faors                                                                   Dissemination on HOF topics                                              Active collaboration in development/promotion of RailHOF

_| platform

|  | Dissemination on HOF topics 7 .        7 .    | 7 7 7 |   HOF network meeting
Develop HOF-expert competency framework (TF to set up after
agreement of HOF network in 2023)

a              _               .                                                Review of the HOF toolkit and associated documentation/
Training on specific HOF topics
training 2 years after publication

Executing SSC      7.20.              | E877484           ExecutingSSC                                            Legal deadlines and according to the process

Training on specific HOF topics.

() Depending on the progress made with the ISS system implementation (also linked to the outcome of the SOS paper)

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 51

--- Page 54 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

FTEfrom | Budget
SP         assigned

Project Name                                                        Output indicator                                         Output Target

Safety Trainings        x                                                  Assistance delivered according to the request assessment

and Assistance to                            __......., Requests for assistance assessed

Rail Stakeholders                                                            Requests for safety trainings asessed

(STARS)                       Se ae   oc   2
Trainings delivered according to the request assessment              100%

52 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 55 ---
Strategic statement 5 - Rail will be resilient and agile in responding to emergency situations

。 Resilience of the rail sector to emergency situations and external events
。 Agility of the rail sector to respond quickly and efficiently to emergency situations
Outcome indicators                The indicators will be developed in future SPDs, as no projects will contribute to the achievement of the statement in 2024.

Expected outcome

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources                    OFTEs
Financial resources                    €0
Fee-based                           No

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 53

--- Page 56 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Strategic statement 6 - Rail will become increasingly economically competitive as a mode and as a sector.

Expected outcome                   * Economic competitiveness of the rail sector compared with other modes of transport
。 Evolution in rail traffic in absolute terms

Outcome indicators              。 Proportion of rail vs road and air transport, for passenger and freight rail in the EU

Note: they will be further            ¢ Number of pax-km per passenger train-km

developed in future SPDs           ¢ Number of tonne-km per freight train-km

。 Average ERTMS costs (trackside and on-board
Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (?°)                3.28 FTE
Financial resources (7°)                € 80,400
Fee-based                           No

() The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(8) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

54 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 57 ---
Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget

assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Impact
assessments

Ex-post
evaluations

Reporting on
Railway System

Data and
information
analysis

Women in
transport

1.05

0.56

0.78

0.74

0.15

€ 15,200

€ 3,325

€9,500

€52,375

_| Task Force Report endorsed by ESG

Number of impact assessments delivered for recommendations
and opinions

IA on TSI specific cases

Number of completed ex-post evaluations

Annual assessment report on achievements of CSTs
Report on Safety and Interoperability

Complete the targeted studies that are selected by the MT

Contribute to follow-up activities of the ERA Safety Climate
Survey, including the drafting of the safety culture report for the

Thematic session WiT with the Agency's management team
Thematic session WiT with the Agency's staff
Speed networking event findings

_| Report delivered to the ESG byDecember

Number of IAs corresponds to the number recommendations
delivered / number of opinions issued

Delivered by end 2024

At least one

31/03/2024
Available by end of Q2

Two targeted studies

Delivery to the EC by 16/06/24

Organised
Organised

Analysis performed and actions drawn

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 55

--- Page 58 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Strategic statement 7 -The EU will become the global reference for rail and ERA authorisations will be globally recognised.

Expected outcome                  * The EU isa global reference for railway certifications and integration

。 ERA authorisations are recognised worldwide
Outcome indicators
Note: they will be further             ¢ Number of participants in ERA training sessions and other dissemination events
developed in future SPDs

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (?’)                 10.22 FTE + 0.80 additional FTE's from SAP implementation
Financial resources (78)              € 1,419,298
Fee-based                           No

(??), The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(下 The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

56 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 59 ---
FTE from    Budget

Project Name                                                        Output indicator                                         Output Target

SP      assigned

ERA Academy         3.58                   € 1,039,930             Implementation of the Academy related section of the                Implemented as planned
Communication and dissemination plan

Coordination                            € 60,000         |CollaborationwithOSD                              Ensured
of international                                                            Collaboration with OTIF                                                        Ensured
relations                                               | celeron with other international regulation bodies (Platform  E
of regulators)                                                                                  nsured
Support to EC in wider international engagement                     Ensured
a
Networks                1.03                        € 47,500                Networks - NIB cooperation                                                      Organised
Networks - NRB management and coordination                       Organised
Networks - NSA Network                                                      Organised
[ro crazyrem erence ena er
Online corporate                                 € 214,368            _| Implementation of changes on the Agency's website                   quarterly

communication                                                                                                                                _ [At least 6 posts per  month

/ | > 97% (excluding maintenance) -

a.  Twitter - Number ofretweets = if ‘At least 12retweetspermonth =
oeWebsite availability            a             | >.97% (excluding maintenance)

YouTube - Number of original videos.                                    At least 2 videos per month
Publications                                     € 47,500              Creating and implementing communication campaigns aiming
management                                                         at explaining ERA’s mission, activities and added value                2 Communication Campaigns

‘oars and keeping the consistence of ERA corporate       2 internal trainings delivered to ERA Staff
Collaboration                                     €10,000 |    Assessment of the new standard version to be referred to inTSIs_ | New version assessed within the agreed deadlines _
with European                                      oo ERAUIC coordinationmeetings meld
and international                                   Participation to the meeting related (RASCOP CLC/TC9X, CEN/           a            Co
standardization                                               C256, ISO/TC269, ISO/TC204, IEC/TC9, ETSI)                        50% participation based on priority topics
organizations                                                      Vv__| Draft EC request for EN standards                                            Provided

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 57

--- Page 60 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Strategic statement 8 - The Agency will ensure an effective and efficient governance of its portfolio of activities in order to offer the best
value for money to citizens and business in the EU

 Effective and efficient governance of the Agency's portfolio
* The Agency's activities provide value for money guaranteed to EU citizens and businesses across the EU

The expected outcomes have been further detailed in the following intermediate outcomes:

1. Digitalisation of the Agency: Single source of data for internal access; Single source of data for external access; Data is only introduced once

2. Staff understand the mission and vision of the Agency, internalise it and have the flexibility, the ownership/ autonomy with their activities, and a clear mutual
understanding of their roles and responsibilities to actively contribute to the strategic direction of the Agency

3. The Agency has a sound and agile governance framework, whose processes and administration favour clarity, efficiency and decision making at the right
level.

4. The SPD process steers the Agency’ strategy and multi-annual work programme development in an integrated, evidence-based, and coordinated manner
as well as the monitoring of its effectiveness. This can be achieved through interfacing with the internal stakeholders owning the strategies and the external
stakeholders (EC, EB strategic calendar, etc)

5. SPD is the single reference (for internal and external stakeholders) for all critical tactical information providing the overarching view on the implementation of
the projects and services

6. The Agency is a learning, ethical, legally complying organisation where the decision-making, the strong financial control, the monitoring and reporting
processes give the ED the assurance of best value for money

¢ Budget discipline (% of deviation from annual budget)

。 Data is FAIR, measured on a scale

Expected outcome

Outcome indicators

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (?°)               27.75 FTE's + 1.63 additional FTE's from SAP implementation
Financial resources (7°)                € 808,416
Fee-based                           No

(). The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.
(®°) The financial resources shown here only take into account the operational expenditures. For a comprehensive view on the financial resources including all costs such as staff salary, IT costs etc, please refer to Annex Il.

58 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 61 ---
FTEfrom | Budget
SP         assigned

Project Name                                                        Output indicator                                         Output Target

Supporting EB         1.30                      € 76,000               % of mandatory decision topics for year N covered by the EB/MB    100%
and MB meetings                                                     meetings
|e
Organisational        7.29                     € 156,000              Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                             >95% of execution of C8 payment appropriations
strategic   ;                                                          Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                           >95% of payments made by contractual deadline
monitoring and                                                 Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                         ROSE approved in line with ERA Financial
reporting                                                          Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                          Budget 2025 request encoded in BadgBudg
Budget review                                                                       At least 6 budget reviews
CAAR 2023                                                                          Adopted by MB
SPD 2024 monitoring Dashboard                                        Presented to MT (monthly basis) and EB/MB (at every meeting)
SPD 2024 substantial and non-substantial amendments             Adopted by MB (substantial)/ adopted by ED (non-substantial)

First draft endorsed by MB in January and final document
adopted by MB in November

MB workshop organised and workshop report circulated to the

SPD 2025-2027

SPD 2026 - 2028

participants

Strategies identified, steered and monitored                            2

% of internal/ external requests for corporate performance          100%

related data and information addressed
V¥__| Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                               <10% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T1
V¥__| Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                               <20% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T2
V¥__| Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                               <30% of carry-over of payment appropriations for T3
V¥__| Budget planning, monitoring and reporting                               >98% of appropriations committed
Vv     % of ful time administrative equivalent work streamlined             Ensure projected administrative FTE decrease in line with the SAP

through efficiency gains
V |% of SAP vacancies filled considering budget constraints               100%
v     % of SAP indicators/ targets for year N+1 on policy priority areas     100%

included and resourced in adopted SPD N+1

Topics for which the SAP Task Force made progress: 1.
v     workload analysis and process leaning, 2. matrix and portfolio      Progress made for all topics

management review, 3. training and capacity building, 4. budget,
5. synergies

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 59

--- Page 62 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Internal
Management and
Control System

Legal support

Accounting

Media/press
relation and crisis
management

3.80

2.10

1.20

0.70

60 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

€ 28,500

% of nonconformities identified for which corrective/preventive
actions are identified

Agency’ most significant risks identified and assessed. Remedial
actions plans in place.

Agency's processes management - % of Agency processes
revised in line with the ICF and leaning objectives

Audit implementation_% of |AS/ECA recommendations
implemented in line with the action plan

Documented assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal
control framework

Financial verification_ Residual error rate following ex-post
control

% of legal acts issued by the Agency, as defined by the Agency
regulation, for which legal advice was provided

Accounting - Opinion in the CoA annual report on reliable
Agency accounts

Consolidating media relations management

Consolidating media relations s management

Reinforcing ERA's ability to communicate effectively during a
Crisis

Reinforcing ERAs ability to communicate effectively during a
crisis

Reinforcing ERAs ability to communicate effectively during a
crisis

Increased engagement with media

20%

_| (ERTMS, TSI, safety, F&C, monitoring and analysis)

/  |  ‘At least one press briefing t to be organ  ed in 2024

100%

Documented and reported in CAAR

100%
Prepared and included in the CAAR

<2%

100%

Positive

Developing Media relations plan for 2024
Develop narratives and key messages for ERAs domain of activity

Conduct one internal lesson learnt exercise
Review and improve crisis communication processes

One training provided to the Crisis Communication Team

“| Dedicated Press Room to be further developed on ERA's website,

facilitating constructive dialogue with media representatives


--- Page 63 ---
Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Procurement
Service

Ethics service

Management,
control and
support of ERA
portfolio of
projects and
services

Interoperable data

3.02

0.13

1.50

3.44

1.63

€ 2,500

€ 540,666

No. of procurement procedures timely organised out of the
total number of procurement procedures planned in the annual
procurement plan

% of Agency's staff trained on antifraud and Ethics

% of annual declaration of interests (Dol) submitted by staff
members

Communication of SPD outputs for which risks cannot be
mitigated within Agency's control

Monthly reports for Agency's projects and services

Projects at risk of not achieving SPD outputs identified, causes
analysed, mitigation measures proposed and implemented by
the PM/SM, PO/SO

_| Data and telematics conference

Linked data programme implementation towards a data-centric
organisation.
Linked data programme implementation towards a data-centric
organisation.
Linked data programme implementation towards a data-centric
organisation.

Support dissemination activities, including conferences and
traning

Migration of registers into a knowledge graph approach
Migration plan for the individual registers to a linked data
approach, including the standardization of terminology through
the ERA terminology

Preliminary work for ISS-Stage 1

Done by December 2024

_| infrastructure deta

>90%

at least 15% per each type of training
at least 90%

90% of project outputs that will not be fully achieved
communicated to the Management team

95% collected

100% of mitigation measures proposed and implemented for
projects at risk by the PM/SM, PO/SO

Reference data management procedure defined.

ERA vocabulary covers Safety related data (of the Agency's
relevant information systems)
ERA vocabulary covers CCS TSI related data over railway

Provided

EVR data migrated and in sync with the master database

Migration plan finalised, based on legal requirements and
business cases

1 Ontology implemented

2.Basic User interface
3.Machine to machine capability tested

4 Pilot chatbot for natural language queries of the knowledge
graph

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 61

--- Page 64 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

Project Name

FTE from
SP

Budget
assigned

Output indicator

Output Target

Internal
communication
lifecycle

DPO (Data
Protection Officer)

Better together
at ERA

SUMMA
implementation
at ERA

Efficient Vehicle
Authorisation

0.80

0.20

0.53

0.99

0.75

€4,750

Staff engagement survey

Percentage of pieces of advice and consultation provided on
time

ERA’s culture reassessed

Support to the implementation of SUMMA within the Agency

SUMMA related trainings (in house and Commission-organised)
delivered

VA C2T applications: involvement with EVA prototype (internal
EUAR users)

Odd years: SES organised, action plan developed and approved/
Even years: closing of at least 70% of the follow-up actions from
the action plan

100%

Understanding the evolution of ERAs culture following the
implementation of the change plan

First level support provided within 24 hours (either solution
provided or escalation to DG BUDG)

5

10 by 04/2024

62 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 65 ---
Strategic statement 9 - The Agency will ensure a performant working environment, based on high-quality motivated human resources

and a collaborative behaviour

。 Performant working environment at the Agency

Expected outcome                   * Collaborative behaviour showcased through all processes and deliveries of the Agency

。 High-quality service delivery

。 Staff satisfaction (evaluated through the Staff Engagement Survey or own survey with the same scope and questions)

Outcome indicators                 number of PIT requests)
Note: they will be further           。 HR strategy action plan progress
developed in future SPDs            * Overtime (% worked above the 40 hours/week on a monthly basis, over 110%)

。 Cloud migration — infrastructure migrated to the cloud
¢ ICT strategy action plan progress

Expected resource envelope:

Human resources (3!)               26.69 FTE
Financial resources                   € 1,180,625 (Title 3 & 4.3) + € 2,687,000(Title 2 & 4.2) => € 3,867,625
Fee-based                               Partially

Highly trained staff (checked through dimensions training performance such as the evolution of hours recorded on training in MS Project, training budget,

(2). The human resources are shown in FTE, not headcount. For more information, please refer to Annex IV.

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 63

--- Page 66 ---
Annual Work programme 2024

FTE from    Budget
SP         assigned

Project Name                                                        Output indicator                                         Output Target

ICT Service                                             €1 060,000          |
from                    Average yearly availability of the Essential IT systems
relevant                 Average yearly availability of the Necessary IT systems

chapters in             Production environment of ARES put in place. Internal
T3/T4.3 + €                   a               ，      wae
1,340,000              coordination on ARES implementation within the Agency
from
relevant               ServiceDesk user satisfaction feedback “Very Good/Excellent” rate | >70%
chapters in
72/T4.2
FM Service            7.35                   € 1,347,000            Execution of evacuation exercise at the ERA HQ                        At least 1 exercise per year
from
relevant               ServiceDesk users’ satisfaction feedback “Very Good/Excellent”       570%
chapters in             rate
72/T4.2
HR Service             7.63                        €625                 % implementation of the establishment plan                             > 98%
% implementation of the external personnel plan (CAs and SNEs) | >98%
% of staff turnover                                                              Lower or equal to 5%
ServiceDesk users’ satisfaction feedback “Good/Excellent" rate        >70%
Securis@ERA           0.80                      € 120,000               Percentage of information assets in the inventory which have an    95%

up-to-date risk assessment

64 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 67 ---
Methodological note:

A. FTEs - the resources are planned for the Strategic Statements (in line with the enve-
lopes shown above), as well as for ERA Management and administration.

The table shows in a separate column (“Additional FTEs from SAP") the allocation of the

additional resources envisaged in the EC proposal (12 TAs).

The margin up to the maximum establishment plan accommodated the difference be-

tween headcount and FTEs (e.g. part time

work etc.)

Strategic statement 1                                   70.05               10.03                80.08
Strategic statement 2&3                                2.85                0.10                 2.95
Strategic statement 4                                  28.65               4.13                 32.78
Strategic statement 5                                     -                    -                     -
Strategic statement 6                                   3.28                  2                   3.28
Strategic statement 7                                   10.22               0.80                 11.02
Strategic statement 8                                  27.75                1.63                 29.38
Strategic statement 9                                  26.69                 -                   26.69
ERA Management and administration               16.92                  2                   16.92
Total                                                                           186.41                  16.69                   203.10
B. Budget - the financial resources are planned as follows:
Note on the link to                               FF          d
Expenditures        the P/S from the        EU Subsidy        oat             Total
:                                          charges
annual section
These are not included
Staff costs          Iu et             622654387|  €7,633,433| | € 30,287,819
envelopes in the annual
section above
These are included in
Infrastructure      the budget for the ICT
operating                 DuUC9                           € 2,146,913         € 540,087       € 2,687,000
expenditure       service and the FM
P                    service (StSt 9)
P              These are included in
Coe)       the budget for all the           €3,969,280| € 3,526,576]  € 7,495,856
PI                    P/S in StStl - StSt 9
Out of which costs
Allocated by ERA
nes for the    P/S (ERA1242,1243, 1244)               -    € 2,568,000     € 2,568,000
Out of which costs | Allocated by ERA
for PoF for the F&C | P/S (ERA1242, 1243,1244)                       || | — GENERES
Meetings,
missions, other   Ne allocated by ERA             € 50,986                  -         € 50,986
costs
Other
Getional —_ || Alesatieslunetariinalterr         €846940)  €213,060| —_€ 1,060,000
A             service in StSt9
expenditure
TOTAL                                                     € 29,668,506 | € 11,913,156 € 41,581,662

ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME 2024 | 65

--- Page 68 ---
IV. Annexes


--- Page 69 ---
Annex |. Organisational chart

Figure 1 - Organisational chart as of 01/01/2024

Executive Director (ED)

Railway Systems (RSY)

Rolling Stock & Fixed
Installations (FIRST)

Safety & Operations (SAFO)

ERTMS (ERTMS)

Department

Unit

Team

Planning & Approvals Delivery
(PAD)

ve        le
orization (VA)
Safety Certification (SSC)

ERTMS Trackside Approval

(TA)

Portfolio Management
& Support

Monitoring, Analysis, Ressearch
& Stakeholders (MARS)

Stakeholders Rel.,
Academy & Comms

Operational Data (OPD)

Registers

Data Information &
Governance

Corporate Assurance &
Performance (CAP)

Corporate Governance

Budget Planning,
Monitoring & Control

Resources & Support (RSU)

Human Resources

ORGANISATIONAL CHART | 67

--- Page 70 ---
Annexes

Table 6 - Number of posts for each organisational entity (22)

EU contribution & Fees & charges                                       Grants, Contrib. & SLAs
Department, Unit, or Team                                                                                                                                                                              Gra         al
aca | se | chose | ta [ca | sue | ronts_|
7                     1                                           8

Executive Director (ED)                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
ED (general)                                                                                     7                     1                                           8                                                                                                             8
Railway Systems (RSY)                                                       58                4                 1                 63                                   3                                    3                66
RSY (general)                                                                                   9                                                                 9                                                                                                             9
ERTMS & Telematics (ERTMS)                                                                 18                                                                           18                                                                                                                                18
Rolling Stock & Fixed Installations (FIRST)                                   17                                                                  17                                            1                                              1                     18
Safety & Operations (SAFO)                                                                   14                       4                        1                        19                                                 2                                                   2                       21
Planning & Approvals Delivery (PAD)                                         24                  10                                        34                                                                                                          34
PAD (general)                                                                       4                  3                                     7                                                                                             7
ERTMS Trackside Approval (TA)                                                    2                   1                                        3                                                                                                    3
Portfolio Management & Support                                               4                  3                                      7                                                                                                7
Safety Certification (SSC)                                                         5                                                       5                                                                                             5
Vehicle Authorisation (VA)                                                   9                3                                  12                                                                                      12
Monitoring, Analysis, Research & Stakeholders (MARS)          28                  7                                      35                                                                                                  35
MARS (general)                                                                    5                  1                                     6                                                                                             6
Analysis                                                                                           6                                                                 6                                                                                                             6
Monitoring                                               12                                   12                                                           12
Stakeholders Relations, Academy & Communications                     5                  6                                     17                                                                                                11
Operational Data (OPD)                                                     16                4                 2                22                                                                                            2
OPD (general)                                             3            1            1           5                                                           5
Data & Information Governance                                               6                  1                  1                  8                                                                                             8
Registers                                                                                         7                    2                                           9                                                                                                             9
Corporate Assurance & Performance (CAP)                                      14                       3                         1                        18                                                                                                                                18
CAP (general)                                                              4                1                                5                                                                                 5
Budget Planning, Monitoring & Control                                     5                                                     5                                                                                          5
Corporate Governance                                                           5                 2                  1                  8                                                                                             8
Resources & Support (RSU)                                                                 19                      7                                               26                                                                                                                         26
RSU (general)                                                              1                                                 1                                                                                  1
Human Resources                                                         6                1                                7                                                                                 7
IT& FM                                                                              12                 6                                    18                                                                                            18
Grand Total                                                                      166               36                4               206                                  3                                    3                209

(®) Expressed in terms of headcount, as of 01/01/2024. This includes all posts, including vacancies.

68 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 71 ---
Annex Il. Resource allocation per activity
2024 - 2026 (33)

Table 7 - Resource allocation 2023 - 2026 (34)
=

Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
+
source
‘A                                                    TA    Budget €
3.3

EU contrib.          !        41.6          38        8,376,125       434      39.5           \         8,211,079      46,7       43.0        3.6       9,304,117      474      441                   9,624,466

F&C                    有         223          68        7,451,321       33.7       26.3            é          8,505,519       33.7       26.5        7.2        8711,431       33.7       26.6        71         8,861,117

GC SLA              .          24          0.7          475,410        3.0        27           .            600,800         1.5        14        0.1          395,250                                                    0

StSt 2-3 | EU contrib.          x          29          0.7          667,943        3.0        28           .           535,364        3.0        28        0.1          545,409        3.0        28        0.1          556,769
EU contrib.                                 3.6       3,862,208       256                       !         4,447,181       23.5                   3.9       4,361,311       23.1       19.5        3.6       4,239,430

Bes        F&C                   i          40          1.2        1,826,773        7.2        59           -          2,144,390        72        6.0        1.2        2,179,286        72        6.2        1.0        2,222,742
StSt 5        EU contrib.          .         0.0         0.0                 0        0.0        0.0           I                  0       0.0       0.0       0.0                 0        0.0        0.0       0.0                 0
StSt 6        EU contrib.          I          3.1          0.0          564,902        3.3        33           .           635,759        33        33                     647,106        3.3        3.3                     659,928
sts           EU contrib.          is          41          48        1,854,087                    5.9           b         2,976,189                    5.8        49       2,734,483                    58        47        2,944,176
Et       GC5L4             4         0.2         08                 0        0.0        0.0                  0        0.0       0.0       0.0                 0        0.0        0.0       0.0                 0
StSt 8        EU contrib.       29.4       19.9          9.5       4,835,075       29.4      21.2          8.2        5,286,754       31.1       22.9        8.3        5,489,312       31.2       22.9        83        5,612,257
StSt 9       EU contrib.       265      18.5         8.0       5,049,440      26.7      20.1         66       5,303,205      269      20.1        68       5,413,661       26.9      20.1        68       4,448,370
MBA 69     EU contrib.       16.8      145         23       3,009,808        88        76         13       2,272,975        8.7        73       1.3       1,766,477        88        7A       14       2,781,717
F&C                     63          49            14          1,554,241          81          64             17          1,263,247          81          64          17          1,255,088          81          6.5          1.6          1,263,637

= EU contribution           156.1) 123.4          32.7) 28,219,589 151.1) 121.6          29.6| 29,668,506 | 153.9) 124.9) 29.0) 30,261,876, 154.2, 125.9, 28.3) 30,867,114
= Fees and charges          40.6; 31.2            9.5) 10,859,649 49.0) 38.6          10.4 11,913,156; 49.0 38.9) 10.1| 12,145,805) 49.0) 39.3         9.7| 12,347,496
Total EU + F&C                  196.8) 154.6 | 42.2 (?”)| 39,079,238) 200.1 160.1           40.0 41,581,662 | 202.8) 163.8; 39.1) 42,407,681, 203.2, 165.2, 38.0) 43,214,609
= Grant, Contr. & SLA          4.1          2.6            1.5| 475,410 (**)         3.0         2.7           0.3           600,800          1.5          1.4         0.1           395,250                                                                  0
Grand Total                       200.8 157.2          43.6 39,554,648 203.1 162.8          40.3 42,182,462, 204.3) 165.1, 39.2 42,802,931, 203.2, 165.2 38.0| 43,214,609

(®) Staff numbers — in line with EU Draft Budget “2.1.2 European Union Agency for Railways — ERA” — include statutory staff only (establishment plan and external staff); as a consequence, Structural service providers, and Interim workers are not
included. External staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements are shown on separate lines.

(**) Title 1 & 2 budget distributed pro rata based on the FTE allocation.

(5) Out of which 0.80 SNE FTE will contribute to Stst 4 and 0.75 SNE FTE will contribute to Stst 8

(8) ERA management and administration (incl. Meetings, missions, other costs)

2’) Distribution of resources is based on the real allocation of FTEs between projects/services. While 3 CAs are envisaged for System Pillar and 1 CA for IPA in terms of headcount, other staff with TA contracts are also allocated to support these
streams of work.

(3). Amount on Grants, Contrib. & SLAs reflect the actual cash flows, not the real staff cost

RESOURCE ALLOCATION PER ACTIVITY 2024 - 2026 () | 69

--- Page 72 ---
Annexes

Annex Ill. Financial Resources 2024-2026

T 1. Revenue
General  revenues

Table 8 - Overview of revenues

Revenues
(EUR)

2. EU contribution
1.+3.+4.+5.+6.+ 7. Other revenue
Of which 1. Revenues from fees and charges
Of which 3. Third country contribution (= EFTA)
Total revenues

2023
Estimated
27,418,274
10,471,913
10,859,649
801,315
39,079,238

2024

Budget forecast

28,645,912
12,935,750
11,913,156
1,022,594

41,581,662

Table 9 - General revenues

VAR 2024/2023
Revenues  Agency request | Budget forecast                                  Envisaged            Envisaged
(EUR)        (EUR)        (EUR)        (EUR)    (EUR)
1. Revenues from fees and charges                                       7,038,812            10,859,649,            11,913,156            11,913,156                11.9%             12,145,805            12,347,496
2. EU contribution*                                                         26,278,423           27,418,274           28,645,912            28,645,912                 45%             29,218,830           29,803,207
of which assigned revenues deriving from previous years                 114.224                     69639                     81,821                      81,821                     175%                           am                         pa,
surpluses
SUSE sea SEASON 4和AT                      656,721                801,315             1,022,594             1,022,594                27.6%               1,043,046             1,063,907
candidate countries)
of which EEA/EFTA (excl. Switzerland)                                    656,721                801,315              1,022,594              1,022,594                276%                1,043,046              1,063,907
of which candidate countries                                                                    =                               =                               =                               =                                                              =                               =
4. Other contributions                                                                             =                            =                            =                            =                                                         =                            =
5. Administrative operations                                                          =                        >                        >                        >                                                 >                        >
of which interest generated by funds paid by the                                        .                               .                               .                               _                                                               _                               _
Commission by way of the EU contribution (FFR Art. 61)
6. Revenues from services rendered against payment                   10,000                      -                      -                      -                                              -                       -
7. Correction of budgetary imbalances                                             -                        -                        -                        -                                                 -                        -
Total revenues                                                                                  33,983,956             39,079,238             41,581,662             41,581,662                       7.0%              42,407,681             43,214,609

70 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 73 ---
Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements

Table 10 - Overview on additional EU funding

2023

Revenues                                                                        Budget

Total revenues                                                                                                                                             475,410                                                                                                       600,800

Table 11 - Additional EU funding: grant, contribution and service-level agreements

2022              2023                        2024                                 日
Revenues Agency request | Budget forecast                                            Envisaged

Additional EU funding stemming from Grants (FFR Art.7)            247,450

Additional EU funding stemming from Contribution                                                                                                                           e

Agreements (FFR Art7)                                         10,000           475,410              mM.             600,800           126.4%           395,250

Additional EU funding stemming from Service-Level                         0                        0

Agreements (FFR Art. 43.2)

Total                                                                           257,450             475,410                p.m.                600,800              126.4%                   p.m.                 p.m.

For the list of agreements and further details, refer to Annex XI Plan for grant, contribution or service-level agreements.

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2024-2026 | 71

--- Page 74 ---
Annexes

T2.Expenditure
Expenditure

Table 12 - Expenditure

Expenditure                                                                      2023                                                                                2024
(EUR)                                        Commitment appropriations        Payment appropriations        Commitment appropriations        Payment appropriations

Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                           23,473,646                              23,473,646                              22,654,387                              22,654,387
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                              2,096,800                               2,096,800                               2,146,913                               2,146,913
Title 3 - Operational expenditure                                                2,649,143                              2,649,143                             4,867,206                             4,867,206
Total EU contribution                                                                                  28,219,589                                       28,219,589                                       29,668,506                                       29,668,506
Title 4.1 - Staff expenditure                                                           6,647,547                                6,647,547                                7,633,433                                7,633,433
Title 4.2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                             524,200                                524,200                                540,087                                540,087
Title 4.3 - Operational expenditure                                                   3,687,902                                 3,687,902                                 3,739,636                                 3,739,636
Total Fees and charges                                                                         10,859,649                                   10,859,649                                    11,913,156                                    11,913,156
Total EU contribution + Fees & charges                                      39,079,238                               39,079,238                               41,581,662                               41,581,662
Title 5 - Grant Agreements                                                                           -                                             -                                             -                                             -
Title 5 - Contribution Agreements                                                    475,410                                  475,410                                  600,800                                  600,800
Title 5 - Service-Level Agreements                                                         -                                        -                                        -                                        -
Total Grants, Contrib. & SLAs                                                                          475,410                                             475,410                                             600,800                                             600,800
Grand Total                                                                                                     39,554,648                                       39,554,648                                       42,182,462                                       42,182,462

72 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 75 ---
Commitment appropriations

Table 13 - Commitment appropriations (EU contribution)

2024 Budget
2023 Budget                                                                               VAR 2024/2023

Titles & Chapters                                      2022 Budget

(EUR)                              (EUR)
Title 1 - Staff expenditure                                                                   21,966,714                    23,473,646                    22,654,387                    22,654,387                                      -0.6%
Salaries & allowances                                                                     21,488,714                   22,941,729                   22,160,605                    22,160,605                                  04%
- Of which establishment plan posts                                                             18,806,214                         20,177,137                          19,422,988                          19,422,988                                            0.0%
- Of which external personnel                                                                        2,682,500                           2,764,592                           2,737,617                           2,737,617                                          -3.0%
Expenditure relating to staff recruitment                                                 127,000                       117,600                         66,317                         66,317                                -43.6%
Employer's pension contributions                                                             0                             0                             0                             0
Mission expenses.                                                                               10,000                          8,000                          7,990                          7,990                                 -0.1%
Socio-medical infrastructure                                                         50,000                      60,000                     44,744                     44,744                            -25.4%
Training                                                                                       125,000                      120,000                      119,850                      119,850                                -0.1%
External services                                                                     145,000                    207,917                    233,308                    233,308                             12.2%
Receptions, events and representation                                                      1,000                          2,400                          1,598                          1,598                                -33.4%
Social welfare                                                                                                       20,000                               16,000                               19,975                               19,975                                         24.8%
Other Staff related expenditure                                                            0                            0                            0                           0
Title 2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                               1,862,438                       2,096,800                       2,146,913                       2,146,913                                        2.4%
Rental of buildings and associated costs                                            1,082,582                      990,400                     916,453                      916,453                               7.5%
Information, communication technology and data processing                     701,253                       954,400                       950,810                       950,810                                 -0.4%
Movable property and associated costs                                             31,826                      28,800                    135,830                    135,830                           371.6%
Current administrative expenditure                                                          3,428                         27,200                         19,975                         19,975                                -26.6%
Postage / telecommunications                                                              37,691                         92,000                       123,845                       123,845                                 34.6%
Meeting expenses                                                                                     0                               0                               0                               0
Running costs in connection with operational activities                                   0                             0                             0                             0
Information and publishing                                                               5,658                        4,000                             0                             0                            -100.0%
Studies                                                                                                                   0                                     0                                     0                                     0
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure                                              0                              0                              0                              0

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2024-2026 | 73

--- Page 76 ---
Annexes

Titles & Chapters                                      2022 Budget               2023 Budget       [ap |      VAR 2024/2023
(EUR)                              (EUR)
Title 3 - Operational expenditure                                                           3,115,992                       2,649,143                       4,867,206                      4,867,206                                      45.9%
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements                                       1,951,491                       1,863,180                     4,020,266                      4,020,266                                  57.6%
- Of which Strategic Statement 1                                                                       335,055                              517,460                            1,117,000                            1,117,000                                         115.9%
- Of which Strategic Statements 2 & 3                                                                  15,000                                93,688                                42,538                                42,538                                         -54.6%
- Of which Strategic Statement 4                                                                          279,901                                208,953                               381,003                               381,003                                            82.3%
- Of which Strategic Statement 5                                                                          681,707                                          0                                          0                                          0
- Of which Strategic Statement 6                                                                           474,387                                  30,400                                 80,400                                  80,400                                           164.5%
- Of which Strategic Statement 7                                                                        165,441                               625,246                            1,419,298                            1,419,298                                         127.0%
- Of which Strategic Statement 8                                                                                                                        357,800                                808,416                                808,416                                           125.9%
- Of which Strategic Statement 9                                                                                                                          594                               120,625                               120,625                                     20215.8%
- Of which ERA management and administration                                                                                             29,040                                 50,986                                 50,986                                           -92.9%
Other operational expenditure    _    | 1164501 | 785964 | 84690 | 84690 | 7.8
Total                                                                                                                         26,945,144                        28,219,589                        29,668,506                        29,668,506                                              5.1%

Table 14 - Commitment appropriations (Fees and charges)

2024 Budget
2023 Budget                                                                               VAR 2024/2023

Titles & Chapters                                      2022 Budget
(Fees and charges)                                           (EUR)                          (EUR)                  Agency request           Budget forecast                    (%)
(EUR)                          (EUR)

Title 4.1 - Staff expenditure                                                                    3,386,620                       6,647,547                       7,633,433                       7,633,433                           14.8%
Salaries & allowances                                                                      2,885,000                     6,033,542                     6,781,230                     6,781,230                        12.4%

- Of which establishment plan posts                                                                2,520,000                             5,199,466                            5,864,707                            5,864,707                                12.8%

- Of which external personnel                                                                             365,000                               834,076                               916,523                               916,523                                  9.9%
Expenditure relating to staff recruitment                                                      0                        29,400                        16,683                        16,683                      -43.3%
Employer's pension contributions                                                    501,620                     481,026                     727,985                      727,985                      51.3%
Mission expenses                                                                                                                2,000                          2,010                          2,010                         0.5%
Socio-medical infrastructure                                                                                     15,000                      11,256                      11,256                    -25.0%
Training                                                                                                                                                30,000                             30,150                             30,150                             0.5%
External services                                                                           0                      51,979                      58,692                      58,692                     12.9%
Receptions, events and representation                                                                                        600                            402                            402                       -33.0%
Social welfare                                                                                                                     4,000                          5,025                          5,025                        25.6%
Other Staff related expenditure                                                                                                    0                               0                               0

74 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 77 ---
Titles & Chapters                                      2022 Budget               2023 Budget       [pset |      VAR 2024/2023
(Fees and charges)                                           (EUR)                          (EUR)                  Agency request           Budget forecast                    (%)
(EUR)                          (EUR)

Title 4.2 - Infrastructure and operating expenditure                             207,459                          524,200                          540,087                          540,087                             3.0%
Rental of buildings and associated costs                                                108,549                       247,600                       230,547                       230,547                        -6.9%
Information, communication technology and data processing                       98,910                        238,600                        239,190                        239,190                          0.2%
Movable property and associated costs                                                                                 7,200                       34,170                        34,170                     374.6%
Current administrative expenditure                                                                                                     6,800                             5,025                              5,025                         -26.1%
Postage / telecommunications                                                            23,000                31,155                31,155               35.5%
Meeting expenses                                                                                                                     0                               0                               0
Running costs in connection with operational activities                                                                 0                             0                             0
Information and publishing                                                                                             1,000                             0                             0                    -100.0%
Studies                                                                                                                                                        0                                     0                                     0
Other infrastructure and operating expenditure                                                                             0                              0                              0
Title 4.3 - Operational expenditure                                                     3,444,733                      3,687,902                      3,739,636                      3,739,636                            1.4%
Operational expenditure - Strategic Statements                                      3,204,733                      3,491,411                      3,526,576                      3,526,576                          1.0%
- Of which Strategic Statement 1                                                                   3,047,804                           2,568,011                           2,649,092                           2,649,092                                3.2%
- Of which Strategic Statements 2-3                                                                                                                           0                                          0                                          0
- Of which Strategic Statement 4                                                                                                                     923,400                               877,484                               877,484                                 -5.0%
- Of which Strategic Statement 5                                                                                                                               0                                          0                                          0
- Of which Strategic Statement 6                                                                                                                               0                                          0                                          0
- Of which Strategic Statement 7                                                                     156,929                                        0                                        0                                        0
- Of which Strategic Statement 8                                                                                                                          0                                        0                                        0
- Of which Strategic Statement 9                                                                                                                       0                                       0                                       0
- Of which ERA management and administration                                                                                             0                                       0                                       0
Other operational expenditure                                                                   240,000                          196,491                          213,060                          213,060                            8.4%
Total                                                                                                                          7,038,812                        10,859,649                        11,913,156                        11,913,156                                 9.7%

Payment appropriations

Payment appropriations in current and planning years are identical to commitment appropriations

FINANCIAL RESOURCES 2024-2026 | 75

--- Page 78 ---
Annexes

T3.Budget outturn and cancellation ofappropriations

Table 15 -Budget outturn and cancellation of appropriations

Budget outturn

Reserve from the previous years’ surplus (+)                                                                 119,879                               59,486                             114,225                               69,638
Revenue actually received (+)                                                                      28,644,227                      30,761,007                      32,834,965                      34,703,739
Payments made (-)                                                                             -26,041,310                    -27,440,679                    -29,908,642                    -33,246,670
Carry-over of appropriations (-)                                                                          -2,931,959                        -4,097,690                        -3,894,958                        -3,565,238
Cancellation of appropriations carried over (+)                                                           54,280                            106,232                             30,110                             40,317
Adjustment for carry over of assigned revenue appropriations from previous

year (+)                                                                                              335,358                        785,738                      1,008,478                      2,150,676
Exchange rate differences (+/-)                                                                               -1,110                                -383                                -315                              -1.002
Adjustment for negative balance from previous year (-)                                               -119,879                             -59,486                           -114,225                             -69,638
Total                                                                                                             59,486                          114,225                            69,638                           81,821

76 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 79 ---
Annex IV. Human Resources 2024-2026 —
quantitative

T 4. Staff population and its evolution: overview of all categories of staff
Statutory staff and SNE (29)

Table 16 - Establishment plan posts

Human resources

corresponding | Actually filled as | Occupancy rate
to authorised    of 31/12/2022         %
budget
Administrators (AD)                                            120 (*°)                                                                         136 (*')
Assistants (AST)                                                   344°                                                                                   30"!                                               29                       29
Assistants/Secretaries (AST/SC)                                0                                                                                          0                                                0                        0
Total establishment plan posts                                154                                                                                                 166                                                    166                        166
FTE                                FTE         FTE
correspondin:   Actually filled as      ,        correspondin.   correspondin:
to authorised      of 31 eee     ISIN i)     to authorised       to authorised
budget                             budget       budget
Contract Agents (CA)                                                                                                                           100%                                                                                                                  36
Seconded National Experts (SNE)                                                                       50%                                                                             4
Total staff                                                                                                                                       96.9%                                                                                                               206

Establishment plan posts                                                                                      Authorised staff | Envisaged staff | Envisaged staff | Envisaged staff

Envisaged FTE      Envisaged FTE

(®) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table, but under Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements below
(©) One AST post converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 299

(8) 2 AST converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 332

(®) Of which 27 assigned to Fees and charges

(®) 2 AST converted to AD as per MB Decision n° 332

(“) Of which 8 assigned to Fees and charges

(©) Of which 0 assigned to Fees and charges

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUANTITATIVE | 77

--- Page 80 ---
Annexes

Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements

Table 17 - Additional external staff expected to be financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements (4) (*7)

Human resources

External staff financed from agreements

2023                                  2024                                 2025
Envisaged FTE                     Envisaged FTE                     Envisaged FTE

Envisaged FTE

Contract Agents (CA)                                                                 5                                            3                                          p.m.
Seconded National Experts (SNE)                                         0                                    0                                    0
Total external staff                                                                            5                                                   3                                                p.m.                                             p.m.

Other Human Resources

Table 18 - Structural service providers (**)

Structural service providers

Infrastructure

IT — Service Desk

IT - Security

Registers (including OSS)

Other - Software management/development
Total structural service providers

Actually in place as of 31/12/2022

Bw iwiniwin

Table 19 - Interim workers

Interim workers

FTEs in 2022

Total interim workers

0

(后 For the list of agreements and further details on the split of FTEs between these agreements, refer to Annex XI Plan for grant, contribution or service-level agreements.

(“) Extension of the IPA grant agreement to 2023 under negotiation.

(®) Service providers are contracted by a private company and carry out specialised outsourced tasks of a horizontal/support nature.

78 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 81 ---
T5.Multi-annual staff policy plan 2022-2026

Table 20 - Temporary Agents

AD 16
AD 15
AD 14
AD 13
AD 12
AD 11

AD 10
AD9
AD8
AD7
AD6
AD5
Total AD
AST 11
AST 10
AST9
AST 8
AST7
AST6
AST5
AST 4
AST 3
AST 2
AST 1
Total AST
Total AST/SC
Total TAs

22
18
19 (*)
2
120 (4)

0
0

Nia Nia NS
DAD AS sisio =

=
=      =
COWS OA BWI 0 ON

w
on

150

ised budget

Temporary

posts

25
11 069
136 (°°)

30 (°°)

166

0
1
0
1
6

20

Nb 一 wu 一
RN

一
= ee
NON

COO DO RU WIND 'O

N
oo

166

Temporary        Authorised budget          Actually filled 31/12

Temporary
posts

Request of ERA                   Request of ERA

Temporary
posts

Temporary
posts

0
0

1

1
10
20
17
28
19
21
15
5
137

COON O UU BRIO O

N
oo

166

Request of ERA

rmai
posts

Temporary
posts

137

CODON NUNC! OS

29

166

(®) One AST 6 post converted to AD 6 as per MB Decision nm' 299
(©) 2 AST posts converted to AD, as per MB Decision n° 332

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUANTITATIVE | 79

--- Page 82 ---
Annexes

Table 21 - Contract Agents

FTE corresponding
to the authorised

FTE corresponding

to the authorised    Executed FTE as of | Actually filled as of

Contract Agents                                                                                                                                              FTE request for         FTE request for        FTE request for

ERA staff (External personnel)           budget 2022            31/12/2022             31/12/2022            budget 2023                2024                      2025                      2026

Function Group IV
Function Group III
Function Group II
Function Group |
Total

Ts                OSIROOd 9   Executed FTE as of | Actually filled as of   mu correspong            FTE request for        FTE request for        FTE request for
to the authorised

External staff financed from         to the authorised
Grants, Contrib. & SLAs                  budget 2022               和                0               budget 2023                    are                           alee                           awl

Function Group IV                                     5                                                    5                         4                         3                         1.5
Function Group III                                      1                                                     1
Function Group II                                       1                                                     1                          1
function Group Ee
Total                                                                                                  7                                            N/A                                            7                                               5                                               3                                             15                                         p.m.

Table 22 - Seconded National Experts

FTE corresponding
to the authorised       FTE request for         FTE request for        FTE request for

31/12/2022         31/12/2022                               2024               2025               2026

OSIROOd 9   Executed FTE as of | Actually filled as of

Seconded National Experts          to the authorised
budget 2022                                                                    budget 2023

Total                                                                              4                                   N/A                                   2                                      4                                     4                                     4                                     4

80 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 83 ---
T6.Recruitment forecasts 2024following retirement/mobility or new requested posts

Table 23 - Recruitment forecast

Type of contract                                                                             大条
(Official, TA or CA)                                                             TA / Official (*")

Job title in the Agency
Due to foreseen retirement/ | New post requested due to

mobility                         additional tasks
Project Officer                                          TA                                                                                                                           x

Internal                               External

™ Engagement of additional TA and CA (Project Officers), taking into account the priorities from the Strengthening Plan Action Plan 2023-2027
™ Open posts for SNEs to be filled from Calls for expression of interest published on the Agency's website

Foreseen retirement in 2024: 3

Inter-agency mobility 2023: 0

(#) Function group/grade of recruitment internal (brackets) and external (single grade) foreseen for publication
(®) Recruitment Function Group (I, II, Ill and IV)

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUANTITATIVE | 81

--- Page 84 ---
Annexes

Annex V. Human
Resources 2024-2026 —
qualitative

A. Recruitment (engagement) policy
Implementing rules in place

Table 24 - Implementing rules in place

Engagement of TA        Model Decision C(2015)1509       x
Engagement of CA        Model Decision C(2019)3016        x

Middle management “| Model decision C(2018)2542       x

Model decision

Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015 as
per AB decision (see below)

Applied by analogy since 02/10/2019 as
per MB decision (see below)

Applied by analogy since 25/06/2019 as
per MB decision (3)

Applied by analogy since 25/06/2019

Type of posts              Model Decision C(2018)8800       x                            as per MB decision (*), revised on

30/06/2023 (**)

82 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

The following general principles guide the application of the legal framework concerning
the Agency staff:

a.) The core of the Agency staff consists of Temporary Agents. All Temporary Agent
positions have been identified as long-term positions. Due to the budgetary and
establishment plan constraints the Agency is obliged to also engage Contract
Agents in order to fulfil its mission;

b.) Temporary and Contract Agents are treated equivalently as far as possible.

In addition, it should be noted the Agency does not employ officials. However, there are
cases where EU officials have been engaged following an external selection procedure
and have therefore acquired the status of Temporary Agent in the Agency (whilst remain-
ing an official on unpaid leave in their institution of origin).

Selection and engagement procedures:

The procedure for selection and engagement of Temporary Agents and Contract Agents
is based on Articles 27-34 of the Staff Regulations and Articles 12-15 and 82-84 of the
Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities (CEOS), the
related Implementing Rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents and Con-
tract Agents, the Financial Regulation (European Commission's Framework and that of the
Agency), the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour and the data protection rules.

The Agency also makes use of the EPSO CAST lists accessible to Agencies for the engage-
ment of Contract Agents. Because of the Agreement on the European Economic Area
nationals of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are eligible for working for the Agency.

() MB Decision n*204 on middle management staff
(区 MB Decision n*203 on types of post and post titles in ERA
(的 MB Decision n°326 on types of posts and post titles


--- Page 85 ---
The selection procedures for the engagement of Temporary Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision N° 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agen-
cy laying down the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the
engagement and use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS.

Depending on the function and the level of tasks and within the limits authorised by the
establishment plan of the Agency, Temporary Agents are engaged at the following entry
grades:

= AST 1 to AST 4 for the function group AST

= AD 5 to AD8 for the function group AD
For managerial posts or highly specialised posts, the Agency can engage Temporary
Agents at grades AD 9 and AD10 or at grade AD12 for Heads of Department.

The duration of contracts for Temporary Agents is governed by Decision N° ERA-ED-
DEC-1109-2015. Staff holding a long-term post are normally offered an initial contract with
a duration of four years with the possibility of renewal. The standard practice for a first re-
newal is normally for a two-year period and any further renewal is for an indefinite period.

For staff on short-term employment, the duration of the contract depends on the dura-
tion of the tasks to be carried out. At ERA, the duration of those contracts is predominantly
related to the availability and duration of grants, or to a specific time determined project.
In very rare cases it is to cover long-term absences.

The Agency is launching the following types of calls, published on ERA website's Recruit-
ment portal:

Call for Interest (partial internal re-assignment): CFI/ERA/...
Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IM/ERA/AD/...
Internal Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IM/ERA/AST/...

Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Assistants: IAM/ERA/AST/...
External calls for Temporary Agents-Administrators: ERA/AD/2021/...

a
a
a
® Inter-Agency Mobility for Temporary Agents-Administrators: IAM/ERA/AD/...
a
a
® External calls for Temporary Agents-Assistants: ERA/AST/. . .

a

External calls for Contract Agents: ERA/CA/2021/...

Temporary agents

The ERA Regulation 2016/796 which entered into force in 2016 makes no distinction be-
tween posts for long- term and short-term employment. Still a post can, in accordance
with Article 16 of Decision N° 121, be defined to be for short-term employment when it
involves tasks of a limited duration.

The decision to renew contracts of employment of Temporary Agents occupying a long-
term post is taken by the Executive Director based on two considerations: the continuity
of the post and the competences and performances of the jobholder, in accordance with
Decision N° ERA-ED-DEC-678-2013 and the Procedure PRO_STA_01 on the “renewal and
non-renewal of contracts of employment before the expiry date”

If a TA or former TA is awarded a second contract of employment in the same function
group, this contract shall be considered as a renewal in the sense of Article 8 of the CEOS if
the period between the end of the first contract and the starting date of the new contract
is less than 6 months. If the period between the two contracts of employment is 6 months
or more or if the new contract is in a different function group, the second contract of em-
ployment shall be considered a new contract of employment.

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUALITATIVE | 83

--- Page 86 ---
Annexes

84 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Contract agents

The selection procedures for the engagement of Contract Agents are carried out in ac-
cordance with Decision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency
on the general provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the con-
ditions of employment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof.

In accordance with Article 85 of the CEOS, contract staff can be engaged for a fixed pe-
riod of at least three months and not more than five years. Contract Agents are engaged
for their specific competence in different areas of administration (finance, HR, IT, logistics,
legal, audit, quality management), in the railway domain or to perform manual or admin-
istrative tasks.

This type of contract is usually used to meet specific needs such as:

= Administrative tasks;
a Coping with temporary peaks in workloads;
= Launching projects or new activities for which long-term commitment in
terms of staffing is unclear;
a Replacing staff on long-term absences such as maternity leave, long-term sick
leave or unpaid leave;
However, increasingly ERA has also engaged Contract Agents for other (long-term) tasks,
such as:

= Administrative and Logistician Support Agents
= Assistants
a Project Officers

Seconded National Experts (°°)

Seconded National Experts (SNEs) are staff employed by a national, regional or local pub-
lic administration or a public intergovernmental organisation who are seconded to the
Agency so that it can use their expertise in a particular field. SNEs are seconded from
their national employer to the Agency's operational units on the basis of their specific
competency and technical expertise in the railway domain, based on Decision n° 173 of
the Management Board of the European Union Agency for Railways laying down rules
on the secondment to the Agency of seconded national experts and national experts in
professional training.

A possibility to mandate ‘cost-free’ SNEs also exists, where the Agency does not pay any
allowances or cover any of the expenses related to the performance of their duties during
their secondment, although the Agency does not deploy such SNEs at the moment.

SNEs assist the Agency staff and cannot perform (middle) management duties. The initial
period of secondment may not be less than six months or more than two years. It may be
renewed once or more up to a total period not exceeding four years. Exceptionally, the
Agency's Executive Director may authorise one more extension of the secondment for
the maximum duration of one year at the end of the four-year period. Each secondment
and extension are subject to an exchange of letters. An SNE may be seconded once again
provided that the conditions of secondment still exist and a period of at least six years has
elapsed between the end of the previous secondment and the new secondment unless
the previous secondments lasted for less than four years.

(®9) SNEs are not employed by the Agency

--- Page 87 ---
Trainees

Professional traineeships last 10 months and are managed in accordance with Decision N°
ERA-ED-DEC-1063-2015, depending on budget availability.

Structural service providers (57)

At ERA, the majority of service providers are intra muros IT consultants.
B. Appraisal and reclassification / promotions
Implementing rules in place

Table 25 - Implementing rules related to appraisal of performance and
reclassification / promotion

Model decision

Reclassification | Model Decision                         Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016
of TA                C(2015)9560       x                 as per AB decision (see below)
Reclassification | Model Decision    x                  Applied by analogy since 03/31/2016
of CA                C(2015)9561                           as per AB decision (see below)

，               Model Decision                       Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015
Appraisal of TA     C(2013)8985       x                 as per AB decision (see below)

，               Model Decision                       Applied by analogy since 25/11/2015
Appraisal of CA    C(2014)2226       x                 as per AB decision (see below)

Concerning the performance appraisals and staff reclassification and promotions, the
Agency applies:

™ Decision N 132 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency on
general implementing provisions regarding Article 87(3) of the Conditions of Em-
ployment of Other Servants of the European Union

™® Decision N° 133 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency lay-
ing down general implementing provisions regarding Article 54 of the Conditions
of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union

™® Decision N° 122 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency on
the general provisions for implementing Article 43 of the Staff Regulations and im-
plementing the first paragraph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations for temporary
staff; and

™® Decision N° 123 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency on
the general provisions for implementing Article 87(1) of the Conditions of Employ-
ment of Other Servants of the European Union and implementing the first para-
graph of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations.

They were first implemented for the appraisal and reclassification exercise of 2016. Since
2016, the Agency adopted and implemented the rules for the reclassification of Contract
Agents.

他) Structural service providers are not employed by the Agency

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUALITATIVE | 85

--- Page 88 ---
Annexes

T 1. Reclassification of temporary staff

Table 26 - Reclassification of temporary staff

Average seniority i                           reclassified staff
5 years                     years (**)
AD5                                                                                                                                                                         23                             2.3                             28
AD6                                      43                            29                            19                            23                            3.5                            3.1                            28
AD7                                      48                            45                            46                            19                            26                            43                            28
AD8&                                      54                            3.7                            24                            23                            3.5                            3.6                            3.0
AD9                                      3.8                            5.6                            45                            47                            27                            43                            40
AD 10                                49                        58                        95                        6.1                         43                        5.5                        40
AD 11                                48                                                                                                          45                        46                        40
AD 12                                                                                                                                             3.9                        3.9                        6.7
AD 13                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.7
AD 14                                                                                                                                             79                        79                        N/A
AST 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.0
AST 2                                     43                                                                                                                                                         43                            3.0
AST 3                                     48                            45                            48                            49                            44                            47                            3.0
AST4                                     43                                                                                          3.9                            3.9                            41                            3.0
AST5                                     48                            3.6                                                           29                            3.9                            40                            40
AST6                                     38                                                                                          59                            29                            46                            40
AST7                                                                                                   48                            3.9                            3.9                            42                            40
AST 8                                                                    5.8                                                                                                                          58                            40
AST9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N/A
AST 10 (**)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.0
AST/SC 1                                                                                                                                                                            40
AST/SC 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0
AST/SC 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            59
AST/SC 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67
AST/SC 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            83

() According to Decision C(2015)9563
(®) Senior Assistant

86 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 89 ---
T 2. Reclassification of contract staff

Table 27 - Reclassification of contract staff (°°)

Function Grou                                                                  Staff in activity at             How many staff members | Average number of years in | Average number of year:
P                                                                01.01.2022                 were reclassified in 2022        grade of reclassified staff | grade of reclassified staff (
18                                                                                               0                                             N/A

0                                                                                                                          N/A
17                                       0                                        0                                       N/A                        Between 6 and 10 years
CAFGIV                                            16                                   3                                    0                                   N/A                      Between 5 and 7 years
15                                              9                                               0                                              N/A                             Between 4 and 6 years
14                                        7                                        2                                       4.1                          Between 3 and 5 years
13                                        2                                        0                                       N/A                         Between 3 and 5 years
12                                        0                                        0                                       N/A                                     N/A
11                                        1                                         0                                       N/A                        Between 6 and 10 years
CA FG Ill                                            10                                   0                                   0                                  N/A                      Between 5 and 7 years
9                                        3                                         1                                        43                          Between 4 and 6 years
8                                      0                                      0                                    N/A                       Between 3 and 5 years
7                                        3                                        0                                       N/A                                     N/A
CAFGII                                6                          3                          1                         27                Between 6 and 10 years
5                                   0                                   0                                  N/A                      Between 5 and 7 years
4                                      0                                      0                                    N/A                       Between 3 and 5 years
3                                         1                                         0                                       N/A                                     N/A
CAFG1                                                2                                      2                                      0                                    N/A                       Between 6 and 10 years
1                                      0                                      0                                    N/A                       Between 3 and 5 years

(®) Staff financed from grant, contribution or service-level agreements not included in this table
() According to Decision C(2015)9561

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUALITATIVE | 87

--- Page 90 ---
Annexes

88 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Mobility policy

Mobility within the Agency

Decision N° 121 of the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency laying down
the general implementing provisions on the procedure governing the engagement and
use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of the CEOS (adopted on 25.11.2016) and De-
cision n° 210 of the Management Board of the European Union Agency on the general
provisions for implementing Article 79(2) of the CEOS, governing the conditions of em-
ployment of contract staff employed under the terms of Article 3a thereof enshrine the
scenarios for internal mobility for TA 2(f) and CA.

The Agency considers internal mobility when vacancies arise, but due to the very specific,
technical competences of a big part of the staff, internal mobility remains limited

Furthermore, members of the Agency staff can apply for vacant posts within the Agency
advertised externally. A supplementary agreement in accordance with Article 10 of the
CEOS will be concluded as required if existing staff get a new job.

Mobility between Union Agencies

The implementing rules on the engagement and use of Temporary Agents 2(f) and Con-
tract Agents define the scope of mobility between EU Agencies. A very limited number
of the support staff who have left the Agency in previous years have accepted TA/CA
positions in other Agencies.

Increasingly staff members who took up long-term Temporary Agent positions at the
Agency come from other EU Agencies.

Mobility between the agencies and the institutions

Some posts are filled following an external selection procedure by staff coming from other
European institutions (in particular the Commission), although the number remains small.

--- Page 91 ---
C. Gender representation

T3. Data on 31/12/2022 statutory staff (only officials, TAs and CAs)

Table 28 - Data on 31/12/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Administrator level                                                                                                             村                                                        7                                                         @
(AD +CAFGIV)                                                29              15.6%             5               27%             34              18.3%
Female                Assistant level (AST +                                                                                           e                                                r                                                 四
CAFG Lill + ASTSO)                                            23              12.4%             9               4.8%             32              17.2%
Total Female                                                                       52                  28.0%                 14                     7.5%                  66                   35.5%
Administrator level                                                                                                             e                                                                                                                 机
(AD + CAFGIV)                                                                         89                    478%                   18                       9.7%                  107                     575%
Male                   Assistant level (AST +                                                                                           e                                                                                                 9
CAFG bill + AST/SO)                                                                  9                     48%                   4                      2.2%                   13                      7.0%
Total Male                                                                           98                  52.7%                 22                   11.8%                120                   64.5%
150                          80.6%                        36                           19.4%                       186                        100.0%

External staff                                                     Official                                    Temporary                              Contract Agents                              Grand Total
from Grants,                Level                                               5                                                ,                                               ,
Contrib. & SLAs                                             Staff                      %                     Staff                      %                                                  %                      Staff
1

Administrator level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                @
(AD + CAFGIV)                                                                                                  14.3%            1                14.3%
Female                Assistant level (AST +                                                                                                                                                                                             机
CAFGHI+ASTSO)                                                                                                                “                      28.6%                  2                      28.6%
Total Female                                                                                                                        3                     42.9%                 3                     42.9%
Administrator level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e
(AD + CAFG IV)                                                                           4              57.1%           4              57.1%
Male                   Assistant level (AST +                                                                                                                                            9                                                9
CAFG Lill + AST/SC)                                                                                                                °                        0.0%                  °                        0.0%
Total Male                                                                                                                           4                     57.1%                 4                     57.1%
7                   100.0%                 7                   100.0%

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUALITATIVE | 89.

--- Page 92 ---
Annexes

Table 29 - Data regarding gender evolution over 5 years of the Middle and Senior management (“)

2018

Female                                                                 1                                               14.3%
Male                                                                   6                                              85.7%
Total                                                                             7                                                     100%

D. Geographical balance

T 4. Officials, TAs and CAs

Table 30 - Data on 31/12/2022 - statutory staff only (officials, TA and CA)

Nationality                                      AD+CAFGIV                                             AST + CA FGL-IIl + AST/SC
Establishment plan posts  | Number |         % of total staff        | Number |         % of total staff                                                         % of total staff

Austrian                                                               1                                                0.5%                                         0                                              0.0%                                           1                                                0.5%
Belgian                                            26                                 14.0%                            18                                 9.7%                            44                                23.7%
Bulgarian                                            1                                   0.5%                             0                                 0.0%                              1                                  0.5%
Croatian                                             4                                  2.2%                             0                                 0.0%                              4                                  2.2%
Cypriot                                              1                                   0.5%                             0                                 0.0%                              1                                  0.5%
Czech                                                1                                   0.5%                             0                                 0.0%                              1                                  0.5%
Danish                                               2                                  1.1%                              1                                  0.5%                              3                                  1.6%
Estonian                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                  0.0%
Finnish                                               1                                   0.5%                             0                                 0.0%                              1                                  0.5%
French                      41》                   18                                  9.7%                            14                                 75%                             32                                 17.2%
German                                             9                                  48%                             0                                 0.0%                              9                                  48%
Greek                       =                     7                                  3.8%                              1                                  0.5%                              8                                  43%
Hungarian                 到                     3                                  1.6%                             0                                 0.0%                              3                                  1.6%

(®) Staff who is defined as middle manager by the applicable General Implementing provisions on middle management

90 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 93 ---
Nationality                                      AD+CAFGIV                                             AST + CA FGL-IIl + AST/SC
Establishment plan po:

Irish              4           1                   0.5%                0                  0.0%                1                   0.5%
Italian              oO            21                     11.3%                   4                     2.2%                  25                     13.4%
Latvian            一                                                                                       0                  0.0%
Lithuanian         eo           2                   1.1%                0                  0.0%                2                  1.1%
Luxembourg        -                                                                                       0                  0.0%
Maltese           二                                                                                       0                  0.0%
Dutch                             到                           3                                            1.6%                                     0                                          0.0%                                      3                                            1.6%
Polish                           ww                        7                                        3.8%                                  2                                       1.1%                                   9                                        4.8%
Portuguese        [»]           4                  2.2%                0                  0.0%                4                  2.2%
Romanian                    人                        7                                        3.8%                                  2                                       1.1%                                   9                                        48%
Slovakian          贸           1                   0.5%                0                  0.0%                1                   05%
Slovenian          t*)                                                                                       0                  0.0%
Spanish           a}          7                  9.1%                3                  1.6%               20                  10.8%
Swedish           e           1                   0.5%                0                  0.0%                1                   05%
British                                                        3                                        1.6%                                  0                                       0.0%                                   3                                        1.6%
a

Nationality                                         D+CAFGIV                                             AST+CAFG      + AST/SC

External staff financed

from Grants, Contrib. &                                                     % of total staff                      Number                      % of total staff                      Number                       % of total staff
LAs
French
Italian                       oO                    1                                 14.3%                             0                                  0.0%                              1                                  14.3%
Romanian                    oO                        1                                       14.3%                                   1                                       14.3%                                  2                                       28.6%
Spanish                        Ss                        1                                       14.3%                                  0                                       0.0%                                   1                                        14.3%
Total                                               5                               71.4%                             2                               28.6%                             7                              100.0%

- The AACC granted the Brexit exception to 5 UK Nationals as provided for in the Arts 12(2), 47 and 119 of the CEOS.
- ERA may engage citizens from EEA states (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), but does not receive any applications from these countries.

HUMAN RESOURCES 2024-2026 - QUALITATIVE | 91

--- Page 94 ---
Annexes
T5.Evolution over5 years ofthe most represented nationality in the Agency

Table 31 - Evolution over 5 years of the most represented nationality in the Agency- to be updated

Most represented

nationality

Establishment plan posts

Belgian                       oO                            41                                                 24%                                                44                                                24%

E. Schooling

Table 32 - Schooling

No agreement is in place with a European School.

Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type | European schools                           No
Contribution agreements signed with the EC on type II European schools                           No _| Informal arrangement with EEL(M) (Ecole européenne Lille Métropole)
Number of service contracts in place with international schools:                                             0

Description of any other solutions or actions in place:

Informal arrangement with Jehan Froissart Primary School in Valenciennes (EN curricula)

92 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 95 ---
Annex VI. Environment

management

Executive summary

The revised SPD guidelines (°’) require Agencies to compile and formalise their Environ-
ment management policy. To achieve this ambition, the first Environment management
annex was drafted in which ERA summarised its commitment to higher policy goals,
the measures already in place, as well as the potential future environment man-
agement initiatives and actions, taking in consideration the responsibilities of the
Agency as a public administration body, while keeping in mind the impact of environ-
mental initiatives on the Agency's limited human and financial resources. Despite these
limitations, the Agency is a socially and environmentally responsible organisation which
pursues, whenever possible, the adoption and related implementation of environmental
measures and initiatives that can be achieved with the available means.

The Agency is committed to promote a culture of sustainability acting in a re-
sponsible and sustainable manner - see point 9 of the European Union Agency for
Railways Policy (的. Concern for the environment and promoting a broader sustainability
agenda are integral to ERAs professional activities and the management of the organisa-
tion. In addition, the Agency is committed to urgently respond, within the boundaries
of its mandate and capacity, to the ongoing energy crisis.

The Agency's aim is to follow and to promote good sustainability practice, to reduce the
environmental impacts of its activities and to help its stakeholders to do the same. The
Agency's existing environment principles (5) are covered under the following broader
topics:

Green building (的
Transportation

Climate protection               Environmental preferable purchasing
Waste reduction and recycling | Sustainable resource management

ERASs wider work in the railway sector, including its authority and policy contribution to a
fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is covered under the An-
nual Work Programme, in particular Strategic Statement 2 (°”) and the specific project des-
ignated to “Green agenda” (ERA1234)

In addition to the broader policy context related to the Green Deal, the Agency pays atten-
tion to the environmental impact of its day-to-day operations (ie.to its building, staff,
management, administration, and functioning)

ERA in the broader policy context related to environment

As an Agency of the European Union, ERA pledges to the Commission's European
Green Deal (®) initiative. Consequently, ERA commits to deliver its part of the deal to
make the EU’s climate, energy, transport and taxation policies fit for reducing net green-

(8) Communication C(2020) 2297 final of 20.4.2020 on the strengthening of the governance of Union Bodies under
Article 70 of the Financial Regulation 2018/1046 and on the guidelines for the SPD and the CAAR

(©) https://www.era.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/european_union_agency_for_railways_policy_en.pdf

(®) Currently covered in the latest Environmental measures implemented at ERA status note (internal, 15/03/2022)

(®) The Agency is considering a green building certification for its new headquarters building project (Certification HOE

aute Qualité Environnementale)

(°") “Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will
be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”

(®) See https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en | https://ec.europa.eu/info/
strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal/delivering-european-green-deal_en

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 93

--- Page 96 ---
Annexes

Reducing its dependence
on fossil fuels

eS

house gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels - as defined in the
EU Climate Target Plan 2030 (*).

Since the publication of the Communication from the Commission on the European
Green Deal (9 in December 2019, ERA has strengthened its activities aiming at promoting
the role of the railways in the decarbonation of the European transport sector. To make the
European Union the first carbon neutral region in the world by 2050, lowering the trans-
port emissions is crucial. Between 1990 and 2019, the transport emissions have gradually
increased and reached 25% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the EU. The transport
sector is the second sector only to the energy sector in terms of emission.

However, looking at the same period, the emissions of the railway sector have gradually
decreased and nowadays represent less than 0.5% of the transport-related emissions. In
addition, railways are also the mode of transport with the lowest external costs (external-
ities).

ERA has a central role in fostering interoperability and safety of the rail transport which
should eventually make it more attractive, more efficient and thereby increase the modal
share of the railways, resulting the greenhouse gas emissions of Europe's transport sector,
in line with the objectives of the EC Green Deal:

Figure 1 - Sustainable mobility targets (Source: EC)

reduction
greenhouse gas emissions in transport by 2050

Making                                          Pricing to reflect
alternative choices available                       environmental impact

By 2030, there will be at least              All large and medium-sized cities put                     The internalisation
30 million zero-emissions cars and             in place their own sustainable urban                        of external costs
80 000 zero-emission lorries                       mobility plans by 2030.                          of transport at the latest
in operation                                               =                                          by 2050 will ensure
(©)                                   that those who use transport
oo                                              will bear the full
Traffic on high-speed rail                    costs rather than leaving eurers
By 2030, there will be                            will double by 2030                           in our society to meet them
at least 100 climate-neutral                      By 2050 rail freight traffic
cities in Europe.                                         will double.

Scheduled collective travel

under 500 km should be carbon neutral

by 2030 within the EU.

us

Zero-emission large aircraft will
become ready for market by 2035.

94 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Transport by inland waterways and
short sea shipping will increase
by 25% by 2030.

(®) _https://myintracomm.ec.europa.eu/news/EuropeandBeyond/Pages/S5-percent-emissions-cut-plan.aspx| https://
ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/european-green-deal/2030-climate-target-plan_en
() Communication COM/2019/640 final of 11.12.2019 from the Commission on the European Green Deal


--- Page 97 ---
Figure2- Smart mobility targets (Source: EC)

Unleash full potential                     By 20360, integrated electronic                By 2030, automated mobility
of data                        ticketing facilitates seamless multimodal           will be deployed on large scale.

passenger transport.

Freight transport will be paperless.

Figure 3 - Resilient mobility targets (Source: EC)

Transport has been one of the sectors hit hardest by the COVID-19 pandemic. The EU has now an opportunity
to build a mobility system that is sustainable, smart, and resilient: a system for future generations.

Building a strong and resilient
Single Market:

Investment in transport infrastructure
across the EU Member States;

By 2050, a fully operational, multimodal
Trans-European Transport Network
for sustainable and smart transport
with high speed connectivity.

ERAS wider work in the railway sector, incl

Creating a mobility system                  Ensuring the highest standards
that is fair and just for all:                       of safety and security
in European transport:

Make mobility affordable and accessible
in all regions and for all passengers;                  By 2050, the death toll
for all modes of transport

in the EU will be close to zero.

Improve the conditions
for transport workers.

uding its authority and policy contribution to a

fully-fledged functioning Single European Railway Area, is reflected in all Agency's
strategic statements which form part of the Single Programming Document (multi-annual
and annual parts). The targeted conceptual work related to the Green agenda is captured

in Strategic Statement 2 (7').

In 2021, ERA led by example by having been one of the main organisers of European Year
of Rail 2021 (”), a flagship thematic initiative of the European Green Deal.

On the highest level, ERA also pledges to respect and act upon the United Nation's
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the 17 Sustainable Development

Goals (SDGs).

(7) “Rail will become the backbone that supports an environmentally sustainable multimodal transport system and will
be favoured as a transport mode by the new generations”
(”) See https://europa.eu/year-of-rail/index_en | https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_20_363

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 95

--- Page 98 ---
Annexes

96 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Environmental impacts of ERA activities

ERAS administrative operations related to its building(s) have direct and indirect impacts
on the environment. ERA's impact on the environment falls under the following categories:

1. Use of electricity, including for heating and cooling, water, paper and         ©)
stationery
2. Generation of waste and CO, emissions (including by travelling / com-          N,
muting)                                                                                             (a @
3. Land use with regards to biodiversity(”?)                                        wy
x_

ERA pays attention to limiting the use of resources, taking the energy crisis into account,
and minimising negative impacts on the environment.

The recent geopolitical developments make the environmental - and in particular ener-
gy-related issues - more visible than ever before.

Accountability ceiling of ERA

ERA is committed to do the utmost to advance its environment management and neutral-
ise its impact on the environment. Nevertheless, it needs to be noted that due to outside
factors ERA's leverage may be limited regarding some proposed environment actions.

Current ERA headquarters building was put at the disposal of ERA by Valenciennes Métro-
pole through a rental contract. Other buildings (meeting rooms in Lille, parking) used by
ERA are rented in office buildings and parking lots, where the environment management
responsibilities and tasks lie with the property owner or manager. In the context of the
Covid-19 pandemic, the Agency has re-assessed its approach to meetings with stakehold-
ers and has limited the use of office spaces in Lille, as well as the missions of ERA staff and
externals to Lille headquarters. A large number of the Agency's meetings have been held
in remote mode, thus reducing the carbon footprint.

Moreover, ERA’s new headquarters building project has a key focus on environmental
considerations when setting up specifications and during negotiations. The new building
project complies with the EMAS/HQE recommendations.

It has to be noted that the railway link with the adjacent Belgian city of Mons is missing for
decades, with no rail service on the section between Valenciennes and the Franco-Belgian
border. Despite recent plans brought back the hope for re-establishing the connection, as
of today this condition leaves no feasible public transportation option for the significant
proportion of ERA staff living in Belgium. ERA remains a vocal advocate of recommencing
cross-border railway operations as defined in its Strategic Statement 1 (’4), with a particu-
lar focus on this particular one. Nevertheless as of today, carbon footprint related to staff
commuting from Belgium to France needs to be mitigated with less desirable alternative
solutions, such as carpooling.

() As per the EMAS regulation (Commission Regulation (EU) 2018/2026 of 19 December 2018 amending Annex IV to
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 on EMAS). Note: the premises have limited urban green space or accessible rooftop
to be considered for significant improvement of its biodiversity.

(). “There will no longer be any technical and operational barriers to the free movement of people and goods by rail,
assets can be reused throughout Europe”

--- Page 99 ---
Environment management initiatives and actions completed in 2023

Reducing temperature in the building as agreed/
recommended by French authorities, with no possibility for
additional electric heating devices

Repair/replace faulty sensors to solve lights always on in
some offices

Reduce/stop heating and cooling in underutilised spaces,
allow for settings management at office level

Adjust auto-off settings of lights, reducing light level
whenever possible, add manual switches for “hard off” (not
even activated with motion sensor), consider lights off
beyond working hours

Remove some neon tubes and/or replace them with LED in
garage

Internal communication campaign on various topics such:
energy efficiency, cycling to work and composting

Purchase of bike repair station (or repair kit with pump)

Replace bottled water at events with alternative, less waste
generating means (e.g. distributing ERA-branded reusable
water bottles, order of returnable bottle products with a
deposit fee)

Include recyclable packaging in the criteria of the catering
contract

Set-up of ERA Environment (Volunteering) Group to drive
dissemination actions, collect ideas and push for the progress
of environment actions

Promotion of the transition rally organised as part of the
European week of sustainable development in Valenciennes

Blood donation organised with ERA staff

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)
A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)
A. Consumption of resources
(energy & utilities)

B. Reduction of carbon footprint
related to staff commuting

|. Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR), staff involvement in
environmental issues

B. Reduction of carbon footprint
related to staff commuting

F Waste generation reduction,
sorting and recycling

F Waste generation reduction,
sorting and recycling

|. Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR), staff involvement in
environmental issues

|. Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR), staff involvement in
environmental issues

|. Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR), staff involvement in
environmental issues

immediately

immediately

Q1 2023

Q1 2023

Q2 2023

Q4 2023

Q2 2023

Continuous

Contract
renewal
Q1 2023

Q3 2023

Q2 2023

RSU/FM

RSU/FM

RSU/FM

RSU/FM

RSU/FM

MARS/SAC

RSU/FM

MARS/SAC

RSU

CAP

MARS

ERA

Done

Done

Done

Done

Done

Will be done
by the end of
the year

Done

Done

Done

Done

Done

Done

In December 2022, 30% of savings compared to
December 2021.

HVAC programmed to stop at 10:00 if staff is not
present (winter - spring).

Neon tubes replaced by LED in the parking space.

The campaign on composting has been done
(possibility to buy composters at lower price with
Valenciennes Métropole). The two other campaigns
will be launched Mid-October.

A pump and a repair kit available upon demand.

This is now a standard practice (e.g. last Rail safety
days in Tallinn).

This is now a standard practice.

Quarterly coordination meetings, 10+ membership.

Active involvement of some ERA staff.

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 97

--- Page 100 ---
Annexes

98 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Environment management achievements of ERA until 2022 (75)

2022

2021

2020

Implementation of SYSPER having in view the digitalisation of formerly pa-
per-based processes and reduce paper use

Reduction in the number of missions and limited use of the Lille premises

Donation of old laptops to local charities and associations through the Mairie de
Valenciennes

Introduction of the new SharePoint system - having in view the advancement of
DMS digitalisation and reduction of paper use

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of Covid-19 pandemic

Providing ERA branded cloth masks through Better Together project (to reduce
use of surgical masks)

Reusable water bottles provided for the participants of the Rail Safety Days 2021
event instead of disposable cups

™ Substitution of the purchase of single use plastic cups for paper cups

2019

2018

2017

2016

Participation of the Agency at the virtual EU interinstitutional Greening Network
meeting

Suspension of staff missions and in-house ERA events, only allowing the absolutely
essential ones, when possible, organising them online instead as a consequence
of COVID-19 pandemic

Installation of LED lighting systems in the HQ ground floor corridor

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Refurbishment of all meeting rooms in the ERA HQ (installation of LED lighting
systems inside the MTG A131, BO03-B005, B016, B017, and B018).

Installation of recycling stations for offices supplies in the ERA HQ
Purchase of eco office supplies and LED desk lamps
Communal areas of the HQ refurbished with eco-friendly material

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

Installation of recycling stations in the HQ
Replacement of old fridges with new ones consuming less energy
Deployment of power off scripts for laptops left powered on

Participation of the Agency at the EU interinstitutional Greening Network meeting

() Based on the Environmental measures implemented at ERA status note (internal), complemented with other
achievements


--- Page 101 ---
2015

® Implementation of recycling and sustainable purchases via two catering contrac-
tors

™® Recycling workshop from the French local authorities to explain the recycling in
France organized by FM attended by colleagues within ERA (23/04/2015)

2014

® Installation of the recycling station at the canteen, plastic cup collection station,
plants in the reception and library, installation of recycling bins in the meeting
rooms at the headquarters

™ ERA started the gradual introduction of paper orders that have environmentally
friendly label (Ecolabel/Blauer Engel), and also labelled FSC. By today ERA purchas-
es products labelled “FSC Recycled” (manufactured with 100% recycled fibre of
which at least 85 percent is PCW recycled material).

Environment management initiatives and planned actions

2024 will be a transition year for ERA in the way initiatives linked to limit its envi-
ronmental impact will be apprehended. Initiatives and actions will continue to be
launched and implemented. In addition to that, indicators will be developed per
main areas of actions (consumption of resources, mobility, public procurement,
waste management and office space) which will then be used from 2025 onwards.

Methodological notes:

1. The actions listed in the sections below which require a budget envelope will start with a
budget estimate as a pre-requisite. Budget availability will be assessed for those actions
before proceeding with the implementation.

2. Depending on the interest expressed for the volunteering group referred in part |, this
group can assist with other actions listed in parts A-I.

3. While some of the units/teams are referred in the column of responsibilities by the nature
of their role in the organisation, the successful implementation of the strategy relies on
the ownership and involvement of all staff members.

Consumption of resources (energy & utilities)

A Pareto analysis of energy consumption will be conducted to pinpoint the critical points
to concentrate on and put efforts in first. Based on this information, ERA will identify any
possible action to decrease the consumption.

List of actions:

Promote the use of “personal carbon footprint tool”
Perform a carbon footprint impact of ERAs activities
Continue to procure green energy

Coordinator

MARS/SAC
RSU/FM
RSU/FM

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 99.

--- Page 102 ---
Annexes

Reduction of carbon footprint related to staff commuting             Nn

ERA will analyse analogous schemes at Commission and other Agencies and evaluate the
feasibility of providing local public transport passes to staff (or retrospectively reimburs-
ing staff for these passes) to further encourage staff to use public transport and thereby
reduce their carbon footprint. The budget impact of such initiative should be properly
factored.

List of actions:

Action                                                                                              Coordinator
Carpooling module in SharePoint                                                                     rolling              RSU/IT
Explore the possibility to reimburse a part of local transportation pass                                Q4 2024            MARS/SAC
Development of a teleworking regime that requires less office space (e.g. hot desks,         in line with COM
                                               |                                                                                                                 RSU/HR
rotational schedules) — see under section F below                                                                   reg.
Green public procurement(”*)                                                                         N

ca

Calls for procurement tenders of relevant goods and services include “Environmental and
social contribution’ among the technical evaluation criteria (e.g. decommissioned furni-
ture disposal/re-use, recycling policy, donations) whenever it is relevant for the contract.
Tenderers have to comply with these criteria and considerations to qualify for a contract.
It is a standard ERA practice to build environmental considerations into procurement for
relevant goods and services.

Carbon footprint reduction and management of missions,
meetings and events                                                                            c @

ERA adheres to Commission's guidelines on organising sustainable meetings and
events (77, and commits to promote the guidelines and incentivise to its staff to apply the
steps when organising meetings and events:

™ Step 0: Is a physical meeting/event necessary?

Step 1: Is the venue sustainable enough?

Step 2: Is the printed and promotional material sustainable?
Step 3: Are the 3Rs applied? (Reduce, Recycle and Reuse)

Step 4: Is the catering sustainable?

Step 5: Are the accommodation and transport environmentally friendly?

(中 European Commission- Green Public Procurement: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/gpp/index_en.htm
(”) New release: https://ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/emas_for_you/news/news84_en.htm

100 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 103 ---
™ Step 6: Have social aspects been considered?

™ Step 7: Are you sharing environmental awarenessThe Agency could strengthen
the recommendation for internal and external attendees to select train transporta-
tion where convenient connections are available, or air travel options with small-
er carbon footprint (e.g., more direct flight routes, less connections). In addition,
travel policy and related internal communications will repeatedly emphasise to
ERA staff that online meeting forms should be preferred and picked over travel
intensive face-to-face meetings whenever feasible and expedient.

In 2024, incentives will be made for staff to travel to Innotrans in Berlin by train.

Further reduction of paper and stationery consumption             ©)

ERA will advance further digitalisation of the Agency, including the replacement of pa-
per-based processes with electronic workflows and other IT systems - in cooperation with
the Commission's DG DIGIT - such as:

国 SYSPER (full rollout)

™ Microsoft SharePoint and Office 365: office solutions for paperless document cre-
ation and storing (full rollout)

™® Ares: document management and archiving system

ERA will continue to reduce the number of printed (paper-based) publications through
close management of the communication & publication plan. ERA will increase the use of
print on demand of its publications/materials and web publishing.

ERA will raise awareness among its staff to on further possibilities of moving towards pa-
perless office. As part of it, instead of the usual stationery “welcome package’, office sup-
plies will continue to be stored in a designated office and colleagues will be invited to
collect strictly what they need - on demand.

Waste generation reduction, sorting and recycling                    ty

ERA will make sure that selective waste collection remains widely available in offices and
common areas of the current building and undertakes to provide for the same in the new
building. In the form of internal communication, ERA will raise awareness among its staff
about these recycling arrangements.

Moreover, ERA has a partner to recycle decommissioned IT equipment.

List of actions:

Coordinator

Procure and distribute ERA-branded reusable water bottles for staff to reduce

disposable cup use                                                                                         QI1 2024           MARS/SAC

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT | 101

--- Page 104 ---
Annexes

Reduction of office space need                                                        ©)

List of actions:

in line with COM

Teleworking rules, including clear criteria for requesting full time presence on premises,

depending on the service needs                                                                              reg.                WA
Flexible office arrangement in the new building
-      5                                                  .                                in line with new
Discontinue Lille office rental when the current contract expires                                     HQ project            RSU/FM
Hot desk arrangements
Use of available green space, greening of the offices                     ax

List of actions:

Action                                                                                Coordinator

Design in the new building: planting native and high CO, conversion capacity plants,
installing vertical garden
Propagation of indoor vertical gardens in the new building

in line with new

HQ project            SWARM

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), staff involvement in         x
environmental issues

List of actions: (78)

Action                                                                                Coordinator
Periodical intervention at General Assemblies to inform staff about environmental                      ，
，                                                                                                                     rolling                 CAP
topics
Annual CSR activities organised to staff (e.g.tree planting, garbage collection, social                                   Volunteering
volunteering) and incentivising teams to choose “responsible” team-building activities           rolling          Group / Better
with added environ,/social value                                                                                                      Together

Promote events at the level of ERA staff, such as: “green week’, “green day” or “greener

office contest”                                                                                                       rolling             MARS/SAC

Current status and plan for certifications and standards

ERA does not hold a certification for any of the environment/energy management stand-
ards (e.g. EMAS, ISO 14001, HOE, ISO 50001). However, especially in the context of the new
building project, ERA pays particular attention to the requirements listed in the respective
standards. The new building is planned to be EMAS & HOE certified.

(加 Subject to resource constraints

102 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 105 ---
Annex VII. Building policy — year 2024

Current building(s)

Table 33 - Current building(s)

Host

Building name                     :                                                                                                    Duration                                 Breakout       Conditions         country
Location
and type                                             Office space                           Total               sean) 加           ofthe                                       clause      ke ae     (grant or
x                  contract                                     Y/N           ,        s               support)
(if applicable)
120 rue Marc Lefrancq,                  2 (0)                                    a                       1 year with
1 |ERAHQ           SO VSIEnalShRES 有        5.250 m                               5.250 m:      531 613.56 €  tacit renewal       office rental                                                   no
Lille Office                                                                                                                                        4           ，
sz       299 Boulevard de Leeds,                    a             a                    2                         Until        meeting premises
2   Espace                                             67.00 m       1,50 m             68,50 m       13 865.00 €   31/12/2026           rental                                                      no
Parking des
Tertiales- SPL | Rue du Fer a Cheval, 59300                                         100 parking                       1 year with             .
Valenciennes     Valenciennes, FR                                            -               places       2  tacit renewal      Parkinglrenital                                                   "9
Stationnement
5318.50 m?+
2              2
Total                                                                      5317m?) 1.50 m:         100 parking    571 728.56 €
Notes:

1. ERA HQ (Valenciennes): ERA is the only tenant in the ERA HQ building, the Agency exclusively occupies and uses all office and non-office spaces in the building. Therefore, all surface
area is included under the 5.250 m* of office space (SHON, terraces are not considered).

2. Lille Office - Espace International (Lille): ERA shares office spaces with the building landlord (CCI de Région) on the 2" floor. Following the signature of the addendum n°4 to main
Lease contract that will enter into force as of 01/01/2024, the leased total office space is reduced to 68.50 m? for a lease yearly fee of 13 865.00 €, where the “quote-part des parties
communes’ is 2.04%. ERA has an exclusive use of the “office space" (*') of the 67.00m considered in the rent, the remaining 2.04% included under “non-office’ (®) are shared with the
landlord and other tenants.

(®) HT=hors taxe (excluding tax), as of 2021.

(®) SHON = Surface Hors CEuvre Nette (Net Surface Area), see https://www.service-public.fr/particuliers/vosdroits/F2868.

他) The net office space being used exclusively by the Agency, namely the reception, cafeteria, meeting rooms, offices, circulations, storage / technical rooms, copy corners inside ERA closed space.

(®) Toilets / sanitary installations, storage / technical rooms and circulations located outside ERA closed space and being shared with other occupants, including building common areas located on the ground floor main reception (parking places are
not considered).

BUILDING POLICY — YEAR 2024 | 103

--- Page 106 ---
Annexes

104 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Building project in the planning phase

Due to the growth of the Agency, the current building in Valenciennes does not offer any
longer the required conditions to accommodate staff and activities related to the Agen-
cy’s role as railways’ Authority. Therefore, the Agency has re-allocated the majority of staff
members in double office spaces as a short-term solution. Another short-medium term
solution is the implementation of teleworking up to the limit set by the Management
Board Decision on Teleworking.

In parallel, as part of a long-term solution, the Agency and Valenciennes Métropole have
started defining the requirements for a new building to accommodate ERA activities after
2028 by means of a Study composed of different phases. In 2018, the Phase | of the Study
confirmed that the current ERA HQ cannot accommodate all requirements related to the
Agency activities and growth.

In 2019 and 2020, the Agency has managed to complete the Phases 2 and 4 of the tech-
nical and functional study resulting in the approval of the technical specifications that will
be used as the base for the selection of architects in the Phase 3 of the Study.

Taking into account the experience gained during the pandemic with large-scale tele-
working and new ways of working, the building capacity was revised, and the technical
project adapted.

The main objective for the Agency during 2021 was to prepare the technical and financial
dossier to be formally addressed to the EU Budgetary Authority for the approval of the
New ERA building project.

In 2022, the Agency clarified with the DG MOVE, the EU Budgetary Authority, the steps
related to the procedure to be followed to have the project formally approved. On the
31/10/2022, a letter was sent to the EU Budgetary Authority with the file as part of the
Early information procedure under Article 266(2) of the Financial Regulation resulting in
the presentation on the 17/11/2022 of the ERA project to the Committee on Budgets in
Brussels, where it was noted that the file submitted by ERA was very comprehensive and
clear. Following the exchange of views held in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets,
some follow-up questions asked by Members during the discussion were sent to ERA. At
this stage, the EU Parliament confirmed that the procedure “Information préalable” can be
considered as closed.

In 2023, Valenciennes Métropole decided to transfer the building project to the “Banque
des Territoires" that will launch the Call for Architects during Q4 2023 - Q1 2024 with the
purpose to be able to draft a Rental Lease Agreement proposal. This draft Lease Agree-
ment will contain all the financial conditions needed by ERA to launch the formal pro-
cedure (submission of the Final Technical and Financial Dossier) aiming at receiving the
approval of the Budgetary Authority for the ERA Building Project.

ERA is in constant discussion with Valenciennes Métropole for the new building project.
The technical file is ready (Tome fonctionnel, Tome technique, Programme Environne-
mental et « Dimensionnement Projet ») and Valenciennes Métropole will launch a compe-
tition to select an architect. The plan is to launch the competition in Q1 2024 in order to
select the architect in Q3 2024.

Building projects submitted to the European Parliament and the Council

See status under previous section.

--- Page 107 ---
Annex VIII. Privileges and immunities

The Management Board approved the proposed Headquarters (or Seat) Agreement between the Agency and the host Member State without objections or negative votes in August
2018. (*’) The Seat Agreement between the French Government and the Agency has been presented as draft legislation to the French National Assembly on 7 July 2021 (*) and has been
adopted and promulgated on 31 January 2022. The final text of the Seat Agreement can be found here (*). The following table presents the privileges granted to the Agency's staff: (*)

Table 34 - Privileges granted to staff

Agency privileges

Privileges granted to staff

Education /
day care

The Agency's headquarters are located in Valenciennes and Lille. The French authority
pledge to provide the necessary support to ensure the location of the Agency's
headquarters will remain unchanged. (Art. 3)

The Agency's premises are inviolable, exempt from perquisition, requisition,
confiscation or expropriation. No French authority can enter the building without

the prior agreement of the Executive Director. The property and assets of the Agency
cannot be subject of legal measure of constraint without the authorisation of the CJEU.
(Art. 4)

The Agency's archives and all official documents are also inviolable. The Agency will
benefit from the same treatment the French Government provides to diplomatic
missions when it comes to official communication. No restriction can be placed on
neither official communication addressed to the Agency or a member of its personnel,
nor on any communication emanating from the Agency. In addition, the Agency shall
have the right to use codes and to dispatch and receive official correspondence and
other official communications by courier or in sealed bags which shall be subject to
the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and bags. (Art. 5)

(®)

Protocol of privileges and immunities / diplomatic status

The HQ Agreement differentiates statutory staff (officials, TAs, CAs) and external staff
(SNEs, experts, trainees, interims). (Art. 1).

The privileges and immunities provided for the statutory staff aim to guarantee their
independence and the unimpeded functioning of ERA. The Executive Director and the
statutory staff (Art. 10):

* enjoy immunity from jurisdiction, even after the termination of their mission, in

respect of acts carried out by them in the exercise of their functions

are exempt from national taxes on earnings, salaries and respective supplements

paid by the Agency

* enjoy the exemption for themselves and their spouses from measures restricting

immigration and from aliens’ registration formalities;

enjoy the same privileges in respect of currency and exchange regulations

comparably to those accorded to staff of international organisations

* enjoy the right to import duty-free their furniture and personal effects at the time of
first taking up their post in France and the right on the termination of their functions
in France to export free of duty their furniture and personal effects, subject in both
cases to conditions considered necessary by the French authorities

 Enjoy the right to import duty-free their private car acquired whether in the country

of their last residence or in the country of which they are nationals, bound by the

single market rules. They also enjoy the right to export it duty-free, subject to the

conditions considered necessary by the French authorities;

Have access — along with their family members - to access without discrimination

compared with French citizens to all public services provided on French territory,

including medical services, education, childcare, and housing.

https://www.era.europa.eu/sites/default/files/agency/docs/decision/decision_n180_headquarters_agreement_between_agency_and_host_state_en.pdf

(*)

Assemblée Nationale : https://Awvww.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/textes/I15b4323_projet-loi | Sénat : https://www.senat.fr/dossier-legislatif/pjI21-288. html

(®)
(*)

https://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/textes/I15b4323_accord-international.pdf
http://www.senat.fr/rap/I21-365/121-3651.html

No provision
in the
headquarters
agreement.
Please refer

to Annex V.

E. Schooling
for further
information on
education.

PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES | 105

--- Page 108 ---
Annexes

The Agency is entitled to display the flag of the EU, as well as its own on its premises
and vehicles (Art. 6)

The Agency, its assets, income and other properties, shall be exempt from all direct
taxes. The Agency is also exempt from indirect taxes and duties included the price

of movable and immovable property and services, acquired for its official use and
involving an expenditure of at least €150. The exemption may be granted by way of a
refund. The Agency shall also be exempt from all custom duties and any other taxes for
all goods intended for official use, as long as this exoneration is foreseen in the EU or
national legislation. (Art. 7-8)

Finally, the Agency is entitled to register three vehicles with diplomatic plates. (Art. 9)

The French Government will deliver to all members of the Agency's personnel (expect
those who have the French nationality or permanent residency) a special residency
document identifying them as member of the Agency's personnel. The Agency will
ensure that once an employee leaves the Agency, its residency document is handed
back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also facilitates
the issuance of those residency documents and work authorisations to the family
members of all the Agency's personnel, expect those who have the French nationality
or permanent residency (Art. 11 (1, 2)).

The French authorities will take all necessary measures to facilitate the entry, stay, and
departure of experts in missions for the Agency on the French territory. Necessary visa
sand authorisations will be delivered for free as quickly as possible (Art. 11 (2, 4)).

In addition, the Executive Director and the statutory staff are exempt from any
compulsory national social security system. External staff, SNEs, and their family
members, subject to their coverage in their own country of citizenship, are also exempt
from any compulsory national social security system. (Art. 12)

106 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 109 ---
Annex |X. Evaluat

ONS

The Agency has a system in place to monitor its performance and formalise an evaluation
of the results achieved in the year into the SPD dashboard, as an ongoing tool, as well
as through the Consolidated Annual Activity Report, which focuses on the achieve-
ments of indicators and targets set out in the SPD.

The following instruments are used for collecting the data and for triggering actions:

Work progress reports, filled in by projects and service managers reporting the
status of projects and services against the relevant plans, budget and human re-
sources allocation, including SPD targets.

Budget execution monitoring, a continuous activity based on a daily automat-
ed report fed with SUMMA data, displaying the level of appropriations, commit-
ments and payments to date for each budget line and for each project/service

Monthly management monitoring reports, analysing and reviewing pro-
ject and staff allocation (actuals vs planned), budget execution and risks/
issues at project/service level

Monthly budget review meetings with the Management Team to analyse the
data from the budget execution monitoring and take timely decisions for deploy-
ing / redeploying the resources. The redeployment of resources is brought to the
attention of the Management Board for information if the transfers are within one
title or between titles but below the 10% threshold or for decision if the transfers
are between titles and above the 10% threshold.

IMCS, part of the internal monitoring programme aimed at verifying that pro-
cesses, projects, services and products comply with internal and external require-
ments, including.

IAS audits
ECA audits

Non-Conformity register, where deviations from the relevant rules and provi-
sions are recorded

All the sources listed above allow the Agency governance bodies, namely the Manage-
ment Team and the Management Board to monitor continuously the functioning of the
Agency. In order to allow this, the Agency has developed a performance dashboard
which is turning the data into meaningful information.

The dashboard provides figures, charts and visuals about:

Human resources (incl. information on statutory staff members, geographical and
gender balance)

Budget management (Revenues and Expenditure, with a breakdown to budget
titles of budget envelope/appropriation and paid amounts to date)

Authority tasks (incl. the number of SSC/VA/TA applications received, number au-
thorisations/certifications issued to date, planned and actual hours per authorisa-
tion type)

Projects and services (incl. Budget and FTE planned vs. actual, status traffic lights
with information on red status, overall cost analysis)

Strengthening Action Plan (SAP) (recruitment status, SAP policy priorities, SAP
milestones, budget execution)

Audits (status on open recommendations)

EVALUATIONS | 107,

--- Page 110 ---
Annexes

108 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Terminology (*”)

The following terms are used in the SPD - in accordance with the Commission guideline
on evaluation:

Strategic Statement (sl is a coherent area of action with objectives and resources. It is
the basic building block for the structure of the annual Work Programme, distinguishing
between operational activities — directly related to the mission and core tasks of the agen-
cy, and horizontal/ cross-cutting activities — carried out to support operational activities
and staff.

Objective describes what the agency wants to achieve either in the short or long term.

Indicator is a characteristic or attribute that is measured regularly in order to assess to
what extent an objective has been met

Baseline is the point of reference against which achievement or progress towards objec-
tives is measured.

Milestone is an intermediate target set, expressed in quantitative or qualitative terms,
measuring progress towards the achievement of long-term objectives.

Target is the ultimate desired situation, quantified and timed.

Inputs are the human and financial resources used and the time required to produce
outputs.

Actions are the work carried out over a certain period of time, consuming resources and
producing outputs in accordance with the objectives set.

Outputs are what is directly produced or supplied through the agency intervention. They
often relate to the expected deliverables of the intervention and are identified based on
its operational objectives.

Outcome is the envisaged medium to long term effects of a programme or policy out-
put. While its results are not easily foreseeable and might not be entirely in the sphere of
control of the Agency, the outcome represents an intermediate medium-term step be-
tween the agency’ outputs and longer-term societal impacts. The Agency has structured
its multiannual work programme according to desired outcomes to ensure all of its out-
puts will contribute positively to its vision & ambition.

Results are the direct effects of intervention(s) on the target groups.

Impacts are the indirect or long-term effects of an intervention on the EU or global socie-
ty that are, at least partly, expected to be influenced by agency's interventions.

人的) Communication C(2020) 2297 final of 20.4.2020 on the strengthening of the governance of Union Bodies under
Article 70 of the Financial Regulation 2018/1046 and on the guidelines for the SPD and the CAAR, C. Terminology
的 Referred to as “Activity” in former SPDs

--- Page 111 ---
Annex X. Strategy for
the organisational
management and
internal control
systems

The strategy gives an overview on how the internal control system is organised and is
contributing to the mitigation of the risks to the achievement of Agency's objectives to
acceptable levels.

The Agency is operating based on a management system designed to provide reasona-
ble assurance regarding the achievement of the five internal control objectives derived
from the Agency's Financial regulation as well as ensuring continuous improvement and
the need to implement a flexible and effective governance. The management system is
implemented through four high-level components (i) Strategic, (ii) Core, (iii) Support and
(iv) Measurement and improvement. Each component is including all 17 principles of the
Internal Control Framework (ICF). There is also a clear link with the internal components of
the ICF (i.e. control environment, risk assessment, control activities and monitoring). This
system is deployed further at the level of processes.

The roles and responsibilities for implementing the system are integrated as follows:

The Management Board represents the Member States, and the institutional stakehold-
ers has a strategic role on budgetary and planning matters. It is overseeing the internal
controls and risk management of the Agency. It ensures that the Agency fulfils its mission
and performs the tasks assigned to it

The Executive Director (ED) in its capacity of Authorising Officer (AO) and under the su-
pervision of the Management Board is ultimately responsible for the management of the
internal control framework. The ED sets the tone at the tope and puts in place structures
and processes to gain reasonable assurance that the system is operating effectively.

4

he heads of units/department in their capacity of/Authorising officer by delegation
AOD) must ensure that the internal controls are efficient and effective in their area of re-
ponsibility as per AO delegation of powers. Both AO and AOD in their capacity of process
wners are responsible for continuous improvement of the processes.

onus

The newly created function of manager in charge of Risk management and internal
control is fulfilled by a middle manager. It oversees the monitoring the implementation
of the internal control arrangements and for complete and accurate reporting on the op-
eration and effectiveness of the internal control framework. This function is also in charge
of facilitating the risk management process.

The accounting officer certifies the year-end accounts thus providing reasonable assur-
ance that the accounts present a true and fair view of the financial situation of the Agency.

All staff should ensure at their own level of competency that their activities comply with
rules and regulations and report any deficiency.

The delegations of powers for executing the budget are detailed in internal procedures.
The implementation of the budget is done via projects and services which is reflected in

STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 109

--- Page 112 ---
Annexes

110 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

empowering project and service managers in managing the associated risks and resourc-
es without prejudice to the AO/AOD powers.

The IAS is the internal auditor of the Agency and performs independent assessment on
the internal control systems based on a three-year plan. Complementary, internal audits
are performed. The external audit is performed by the European Court of Auditors (for the
legality and regularity of transactions) and an external company (for the accounts).

Internal controls tools include:

Controls performed at all levels of the Agency

Risk management, in particular at project/service level and Agency level where
the most significant/relevant risks are captured including strategic risks (recorded
in the agency/corporate risk register and reported in the CAAR). Risks are formally
assessed at both inherent and residual level to make sure that the analysis of the
effectiveness of the controls in place is ensured before additional mitigating meas-
ures are put in place (cost-effectiveness of controls).

™ Corrective/preventive measures are established when recurrent and systemic er
rors are recorded. Ex-ante nonconformities involving significant amount of money
(>15.000 euros) are approved by the AO

® Internal control monitoring criteria for measuring the presence and the function-
ing of the principles are in process of being developed considering the risk envi-
ronment and are focused more on effectiveness and efficiency.

® Follow-up of recommendations from ECA, IAS, Discharge authority as well as other
sources (e.g. external evaluations) to ensure that the actions plans are effectively
implemented within the agreed deadlines.

® Anintegrated reporting system to inform and alert management on the progress
on the implementation of costs for each project/service as well as SPD outputs
(monthly dashboard). The cost data is connected to the source (SUMMA). It in-
cludes several other parameters such as risks, issues, changes, corrective actions
taken, quality, milestones etc.

™ Budgetary status reports are produced on a daily basis including an overview
per unit of the budget execution per budget line for all fund sources, financial
information on commitments, payments and transfers, information on progress of
planned procurement and contracts. The information helps achieving the perfor-
mance targets in these particular areas.

™ Exante controls consisting in several checks of financial and operational aspects
of transactions by the actors involved in the financial circuits. There is a very com-
prehensive checklist/templates as well as guidance which ensure an effective level
of control. The specific controls are detailed in the manual of financial procedures
which also included the steps to be taken for making a financial transaction, the
various financial circuits by type of transaction and the different roles and responsi-
bilities. The Agency is putting substantial efforts in updated these manuals/check-
lists.

™@ Sensitive function policy defines the management of functions involving a consid-
erable amount of autonomy and executive powers with the aim of ensuring that
actions are taken to mitigate the risk that the jobholders deliberately misuse their
decision-making powers or influence with a view to gaining personal advantages

™ Ad-hoc controls are additionally applied at the level of processes whenever the
management assesses it is necessary to mitigate a specific risk (e.g. selection pro-
cedures, financial delegations).

The Agency's anti-fraud strategy has been developed in accordance with OLAF guidelines,
it is setting clear objectives, actions and responsibilities and it is based on a standalone
fraud risk assessment exercise adapted to the Agency's environment encompassing fraud

--- Page 113 ---
risks regardless of their criticality. The risk of fraud is duly considered when carry out the
risk assessment exercise.

The strategy is focusing on three objectives:

® Handle effectively actual or perceived conflict of interest,

™ Enhance the promotion of high ethical values as well as increasing fraud aware-
ness

™ Enhance data and information security

The objectives are fully aligned with the fraud risks identified which include inherent sig-
nificant risk of conflict of interest due to specific circumstances of the Agency's activities
(i.e. regulatory powers with significant decision making powers and potential reputational,
legal and financial consequences if conflict of interest not adequately managed; relatively
limited ‘market’ for recruitment of staff as well as for entities which could provide services
for the Agency), potential risk of cyber-attacks leading to operational damage, loss of data,
unauthorised disclosure of information or breach of data; potential risk of outsourcing the
data and information security without proper security risk assessment), risk of staff mem-
bers not being fully aware of their ethics obligations as well as handling and reporting
fraud. The Agency has put in place comprehensive control measures proportional to the
level of risks and amount of risk identified which encompass (but not limited to) manda-
tory tailor-made trainings on ethics and separately on antifraud for all staff, mandatory
submission of declaration of interests for all staff and members of the Management Board
and of the Board of Appeal, ex-post/on the spot controls, review of internal procedures
(including procedures for reporting and handling fraud). Control indicators enable assess-
ment of effectiveness of the measures taken.

Starting 2023, the Agency is implementing the following activities under a single
service (Internal Management and Control System - ERA1158) to better support the
assurance function:

1. The internal management system coordination - coordinating the proper imple-
mentation of the internal control framework, ;

2. The central financial verification;
3. The contact point for IAS, ECA and EP discharge follow-up.

Assessment of the effectiveness of the management system

The agency monitors continuously the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control
Framework. A yearly assessment report is produced where consideration is given to the
results of controls mentioned above. All the internal control components and principles
must be present and functioning well at all levels of the Agency to be considered effec-
tive. The results of the assessment are reported in the CAAR.

STRATEGY FOR THE ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS | 111

--- Page 114 ---
Annexes

Annex XI. Plan for grant, contribution, or service-
level agreements

Table 35 - Grant, contributions, or service-level agreements

Date of |Z amou
nature   (EUR)

Financial and HR impacts

[a= fe     stonsscipson     || 了 Ea 了

Grant Agreements

1.1PA (2019/410-                                     48 months                                  Continuation of pre-accession support to          Amount (EUR)          0)           0             0             0

31 9) 四              04/12/2019      450,000 | 01/01/2020 —       DG NEAR           the EU candidates and potential candidates      Ne of CAs                 1                                        0

31/12/2023                                     (Western Balkans and Turkey)                            Ne of SNEs                   -               -               -               -

2. EUMedRail                                          84 months                                  Implementation of the action EUMedRail          Amount (EUR)            0             0             0             0

(ENI/2016/359-     31/12/2016 | 2,000,000 | 01/01/2017 -      DG NEAR          - EuroMed Rail Safety and Interoperability        N° of CAs                1            0           0           0

727)                                                     31/12/2023                                 Project                                                      Ne of SNEs                 -              -              -              -
Amount (EUR)            0             0             0             0

Total Grant Agreements                                                                                                                                                          Ne of CAs.                    2               0               0               0
Ne of SNES                 -              -              -              -

Contribution Agreements

Weve                                       45 months                                  Provide a financial contribution to finance the    人 (EUR)        ZNO || 20S       p.m.         p.m.

SUB/2021-454/     15/07/2021       750,000 | 16/07/2021 -        DG MOVE SRD.3 | implementation of the action ERA support to     Ne of CAs                 3            3            15          pm

512.852702)                                       01/05/2025                              the Railway System Pillar                            No of SNEs               -             -             -             -

2. Technical                                                                                                                                                         Amount (EUR)        250,000         0             0             0

support on the                                                                                                                                                                Ne of CAs                    -               -               -               -

deployment of                                                                                               Technical support on the deployment ofthe

the European       TBD (*')          250,000 | 2023 (3 months) | DG REFORM       European Rail Traffic Management System in

Rail Traffic                                                                                             Greece                                                      Ne of SNEs                 -              -              -              -

Management

System in Greece

(®°) Extension of the grant agreement to 2023 under negotiation.
(*) Full amount received by the end of 2022. However, due to the project extension to 31/12/2023 the remaining € 192,464 will be spent in 2023.
() The details will be added as soon as the signature will have taken place

112 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 115 ---
Date of | Zam

3. Pilot project -                                                                                           Support the generation of knowledge               AURE (EUG)                        829/25 0n|me2oi200          9
Single European                                                                                         and invaluable lessons with the goal of             Ne of CAs                   :              >              :              :
ine                                       26 months                               accelerating the
           1       16/10/2023      790,500 | 16/10/2023-        DG MOVE          completion of the Single European Railway
Gorstar huni                                     14/12/2025                                 Area, in particular for the Rhine Alpine rail          N° of SNE                  -              -              -              -
Verona (MOVE/                                                                                24                                                    fe)      S
C2/SUB/2022-                                                                                        corridor between
499/S|2.903563)                                                      Munich and Verona
Amount (EUR)         475,410 | 600,800 | 395,250        p.m.
Total Contribution Agreements                                                                                                                                     Ne of CAs                   3              3             15           p.m.
Ne of SNEs                 =              =              =              =
Service-Level Agreements
Amount (EUR)
1.N/A                                                                                                                                                                Ne of CAs.
Ne of SNEs
Amount (EUR)              0               0               0               0
Total Service-Level Agreements                                                                                                                                          Ne of CAs                    0              0              0              0
Ne of SNEs                 =              =              =              =
Amount (EUR) 475,410 | 600,800 395,250 p.m.
Total                                                                                                                                                                 Ne of CAs                 5             3           p.m.         p.m.
Ne of SNEs               :              :              :              :

PLAN FOR GRANT, CONTRIBUTION, OR SERVICE-LEVEL AGREEMENTS | 113

--- Page 116 ---
Annexes

114| SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Annex XII. Strategy
for cooperation with
third countries and/
or international
organisations

Since the adoption of the existing strategy for global cooperation (together with SPD
2018), the Agency is updating the scope of work in order to best address the priorities
listed by the European Commission in this field, namely:

The EU transport policy aims at promoting greater development and stability in the neighbour-
ing countries, enhancing connectivity with the neighbouring areas and towards Asia, and cre-
ating a level-playing field for international rail transport and the rail supply industry beyond EU
borders. The Commission welcomes Agency's aspirations to provide technical support at Com-
mission request. The Commission reminds that the main priorities as regards rail international
cooperation fall into EUS neighbourhood, strategic partners and high growth economies be-
yond neighbourhood, and international organisations. Agency’ international activities should
not go beyond.

--- Page 117 ---
Annex XIll. Procurement plan

Table 36 - New procurement procedures to be launched in 2024

Title

Process leaning services

ERTMS Conference

Linked Data Conference June 2024,
Italy)

Connecting Europe Days (April 2024,
Brussels, Belgium Presidency)

Innotrans (Sept. 2024, Berlin)

Budapest Conference (Sept 2024,
Hungarian Presidency)

Des:

in line with SAP all of the Agency's processes will need to be
leaned for which the support of a company is needed in line
with the endorsement of the MB.

As system authority for ERTMS, ERA in past years gathered
the global ERTMS community in its hometown Valenciennes
to discuss the way forward. Held on bi-annual basis

in alternation with the European Rail Safety Days, the
conference usually features keynote presentations and
workshop elements over a two-days period. Traditionally it
made EU decision-makers find their way to Valenciennes.
Digitalisation becoming increasingly important, the Agency is
planning its first Linked Data conference in June 2024.
Wherever financially feasible, the ERA team seeks to

address topics of strategic importance with the respective
Presidency of the Council of the European Union. For the
Belgium Presidency 2024, the Connecting Europe Days are
an excellent opportunity to address railway connectivity and
interoperability themes.

Since 2008, ERA has been present at the largest railway
industry fair worldwide InnoTrans, which is held every two
years in Berlin. It was used as platform to present ERAS

key activities that impact the rail sector in its new role as
European authority with one-to-one meetings between

ERA staff and members of the rail sector. In 2024, the EU
institutions - ERA together with the European Commission
and Europe's Rail Joint Undertaking (EU-RAIL) - will attend
InnoTrans for the first time jointly using a common “EU village”
stand.

This annual conference, 12th edition, co-organised by ERA
and the Department of Railway Authority of the Hungarian
Ministry of Construction and Transport, will be under the
Hungarian EU Presidency in 2024.

Ql

Ql

Q2

Q2

Q3

Schedule

Market ceiling

156,000.00 €

220,000.00 €

250,000.00 €

25,000.00 €

100,000.00 €

25,000.00 €

Type of Contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

PROCUREMENT PLAN | 115,

--- Page 118 ---
Annexes

Title

HOF Biennial Conference (Dec 2024,
Valenciennes)

Procurement of IT tool for confidential
storage of data for economic analyses

ESISDID - External Services for
Information Systems Development
on Interoperable Data

Domain technical support
(Telematics)

Domain technical support (Digital
Route book)

Generic ETCS Driver's Handbook
update

Professional film for a safety
leadership training

116 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Des:

The ERA Human and Organisational Factors (HOF) Biennial
Conference has become a house number for the positive
railway safety culture community in Europe. Addressing
topics such as HOF and railway automation, or managing
workload and fatigue, it is an important catalyst for
discussions and reflection on key topics and brings together
the railway community to promote a positive safety culture in
the EU and beyond.

Procurement of IT tool to facilitate storage and use of
confidential data linked to standard inputs for economic
analyses linked to launched Economic Steering Group Task
Force

ESISDID FWC is aimed to provide off-site services for
conducting Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and
Studies related to Information Systems on the Interoperable
Data area of activity, including specifically those based on
semantic technologies, such as Linked Data, Knowledge
Graphs and Semantic Web.

Contracted technical in the field of telematics (TAP and TAF)
to support the evolution of the telematics area to a semantic
approach and alignment with the Register of Infrastructure
(RINF)

Contracted technical support on the development a

digital Driver Route Book, including identification of data
requirements for the provision of necessary information for
the driver and technical advice on the data presentation of
the elements for the driver.

The aim of the tender is to establish a contract for the update
of the Generic ETCS Driver's Handbook on the use of the
onboard equipment of ERTMS/ETCS (European Rail Traffic
Management System / European Train Control System)

in accordance with the Control Command and Signalling
Technical Specification for Interoperability (CCS TS!)

ERA safety leadership training was developed in 2018 and has
been successfully deployed. Critical factor is the professional
film that shapes the course. A follow-up training is to be
developed. The possible successful tenderer will produce the
film that will support this new training.

Q4

Ql

Ql

Qi

Qi

Qi

Schedule

30,000.00 €

50,000.00 €

4,000,000.00 €

240,250.00 €

240,250.00 €

130,000.00 €

160,000.00 €

Type of Contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Framework Contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract

Direct contract


--- Page 119 ---
Table 37 - Planned use in 2024 of existing framework contracts

FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS

To be committed in

2024 (estimated)

Local Identifier

ERA 2022 05 FWC-01                                     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ERTMS TRACKSIDE APPROVAL                                                                 21/05/2027                   34 500 EUR
ERA 2023 01 FWC-01                                INTERPRETATION SERVICES                                                                                              24/07/2027               207 500 EUR
ERA 2021 07 FWC                                    Catering services (Valenciennes)                                                                                        08/12/2025                 30 000 EUR
py contract HENGE GUOBAL BUSINESS         Travel Agency services (missions)                                                                                                  31/03/2024                 100,000.00 €
SCIC/C1/2018/FWC/02                                 SCIC EVENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES - LOT 2                                                                                  23/01/2024                 360 000 EUR
OC_EFSA_COM_2019_01 LOT 2-01                DEVELOPMENT OF STATIC AND INTERACTIVE INFORMATION AND STORYTELLING PRODUCTS                 22/06/2024                 72.000 EUR
OC_EFSA_COM_2019_01 LOT 1-01                DEVELOPMENT OF INTEGRATED COMMUNICATION CAMPAIGNS                                                    10/05/2024                 90 000 EUR
ESMA 2022 02                                         ESMA ICT Consultancy                                                                                                      18/10/2026              1 250 000 EUR
ERA 2019 06 FWC                                       ESP-EISD6 - Off site IT services                                                                                                  28/07/2024              1 000 000 EUR
ERA 2021 02 FWC                                     Consultancy support on Vehicle Authorisations applications                                                         06/01/2026                350 000 EUR
ERA 2022 03 FWC                                    DEVELOPMENT OF TRAINING PRODUCTS FOR THE EU AGENCY FOR RAILWAYS KNOWLEDGE HUB            31/08/2026                 85 000 EUR
SLA DIGIT 028                                          Service Level Agreement with DG DIGIT                                                                                 No end date               250,000.00 €

PROCUREMENT PLAN | 117

--- Page 120 ---
Annexes

118 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

Annex XIV.
Strengthening Action
Plan (SAP) 2023-2027

1. Context

In 2022, the Agency's Management Board adopted the Strengthening Plan prepared by
the Agency in close cooperation with the European Commission. The purpose of the
Strengthening Plan is to make the strongest possible case in order to strengthen the
Agency with resources matching the level of ambition necessary for achieving the
important EC policy objectives for rail, in an effective and efficient manner, and
benefit from high levels of ambition and efficiency within ERA’s structure and
methods.

With the document serving as a basis for the internal EC budget negotiations in 2022, the
Agency received a proposed increase of 12 TAs in 2022 (*”). While the additional TA allo-
cation is lower compared to the request from the Strengthening Plan (12 TAs proposed
out of the 22 TAs requested), it can offer a good basis for the Agency to proceed with the
implementation of the Strengthening Plan.

A very important challenge is represented by the fact that the additional TA allocation
needs to be fully covered under the existing subsidy envelope. To make best use of this
TA allocation and considering the external constraints related to the indexation of salaries
and prices, the Agency is making a thorough assessment of its capacity to cover these
costs in a sustainable manner until the end of MFF 2021-2027. Several measures are envis-
aged, such as the time-phased hiring of the TAs. The budget constraint on the subsidy side
is therefore an element to be properly monitored and managed for the whole remaining
period of the current MFF.

The current document describes the plan of actions which the Agency will put in place in
the period 2023-2027 in order to implement the Strengthening Plan, taking into consid-
eration the level of additional staff allocation proposed by the EC. It is hereinafter referred
as SAP (Strengthening Action Plan) 2023-2027. This builds on actions already taken up to
present to increase the efficiency of the support services and tools.

2. What we want to achieve

ERA has established an outcome-driven framework, placing strong emphasis on effec-
tiveness (i.e. “doing the right things’), in line with the prioritisation of activities included in
the Strengthening Plan. In parallel, a delivery structure based on Projects and Services has
been established. Outputs of projects and services are followed up and measured using a
dashboard approach.

With the Strengthening Plan, we will implement a series of improvement actions that
should enable to achieve the most appropriate outcomes with the resources available.
This is important not only to justify the additional resources requested by the Agency, but
also in order to demonstrate that European taxpayer's money is used in the most effective
way, so that the European railway system can develop towards attractiveness, efficiency,
and sustainability.

(®) 6 TAs are expected to be phased out by the end of MFF 2021-2027

--- Page 121 ---
Improvement actions will be assessed according to their impact as well as ease of imple-
mentation. Quantitative targets are defined (mainly related to the respective FTEs) and fol-
lowed up/measured on a regular basis. The baseline is ERA SPD 2022 and the monitoring
tools are ERA SPD Portfolio Management together with the SPD Dashboard developed
already.

3. Objectives, actions, indicators, and targets

The SAP 2023-2027 mirrors the Strengthening Plan and translated it into concrete actions.
It is based on the planning and monitoring framework and enablers already set up
by the Agency, which includes:

® the multi-annual planning in the SPD, with a clear focus on the intervention logic;
™ the Agency's performance dashboard, including reporting to the EB and the MB
™ the regular budget execution monitoring and reporting

® the Consolidated Annual Activity Report.

The annual work programmes will therefore be aligned to the priorities listed in the SAP,
which represents an anchor for the multi-annual planning in what the priority policy areas
are concerned. A direct tracking of SAP-related FTEs, outputs and targets will be includes
in the SPDs.

The SAP 2023-2027 is organised along the following components/objectives:

a.) Drive an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by proportional out-
puts and outcomes, including efficiency gains

iss

Maintain proper resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

c) Ensure a reduction in the Agency's administrative FTE allocation while maintaining
regularity and legality

a

Ensure the overall projected FTE evolution by 2027

e.) Ensure effective and efficient budget management (planning and execution), ap-
propriate risk management

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 119

--- Page 122 ---
Annexes

A. Ensure an optimal resourcing of policy priority areas, matched by proportional outputs and outcomes, including efficiency gains

Note: In addition to the balanced input/output ratio for the priority areas, efficiency gains are also embedded and measured with the same indicators. The latter represent the delivery of relatively

more (ambitious) outputs for the same amount of effort compared to previous years.

A1. Ensure proper
input/output for NSA
monitoring

A1.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A1.2. No. of NSA audits
performed per year (4)

A1.3. Proper learning from the
NSA monitoring

A14 Audit at the Member
State level, i.e. covering more
than just the NSA Activities in
the MS (9

A1.5 Observation of NSA
supervision activities of RUs
where the Agency has issued
the SC (°)

A1.6 "Monitor" NSAs in EU
accession countries (synergies
with IPA grant and TCT) after
IPA countries accession"

A1.7 Combine large scope
NSA monitoring audits and
more targeted audits (e.g.
process audits)

001MRA1116

ERA.1151 (°”)

2022

baseline           2023 (2                     2024                      2025                      2026
6                                      5                                       5

462

4.93

Follow-up of
deficiencies ensured

Pilot during the 2™¢
year of the 2° cycle

Follow-up of
deficiencies ensured

To be included in
the NSA monitoring
service, when
relevant

Target

9

Report after 2
cycles issued with
recommendations

for anew MB

decision
Referential to be
started at the end
of the 2nd NSA
Monitoring cycle
To be included in
the NSA monitoring
service, when
relevant

To be started at the
end of the 2°¢ NSA
Monitoring cycle

To be started at the
end of the 2°¢ NSA
monitoring cycle

Optimised scope
implemented

To be included in
the NSA monitoring
service, when
relevant

Optimised scope
implemented

To be included in
the NSA monitoring
service, when
relevant

() For 2023 we work with the assumption that all 12 additional TAs are distributed across the priority areas; however, a correction factor (0.5) needs to be applied to the additional TA work capacity hired in 2023 (in terms of FTE), which corresponds

to the late hiring during the year. The numbers included in the 2023 column are already calculated with this correction factor.
(%*) This indicator captures the speed of progress with organising the NSA audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.
(°°) This could probably be done less frequently i.e. a longer audit cycle: 6-year cycle, or even longer, or targeted only to MSs where we encountered severe issues during the NSA monitoring which could not be addressed at the NSA level but rather

at the Member State level.
(°°) Not to replace the NSAs supervision, but to assess the performance of NSAs while carrying out supervision activities (e.g. follow up type 3 issues by concerned NSAs)
(°”) Subject to the extension of the IPA grant in 2023

120 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 123 ---
base!

A2. Ensure proper
input/output for
NoBo monitoring

A2.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A2.2. No. of NoBo audits
performed per year (full
monitoring cycle in 3 years =
20 NoBos/year) (*)

A2.3. Learning from NoBo
monitoring/ Forum of best
practices

A2.4 Anew common
framework for NoBos, DeBos
and AsBo assessment and
monitoring set up by the
Agency (new legal base may
be needed)

A2.5 “Knowledge hub" to
promote best practices and
train NoBos (widening it to EU
accession countries)

OOOMRA1138

First concept drafted

15

Organised when the
1* audit cycle is at
an advanced stage

Final draft agreed
with EC as a basis for
a future legislative
proposal

Target

20

To be started at the
end of the 1** NoBo
audit cycle.

(%) This indicator measures the speed of progress with organising the NoBo audits; a complementing indicator is included in the SPD to measure the number of reports issued.

20

2027

20

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 121

--- Page 124 ---
Annexes

base!

A3. Ensure proper
input/output for the
ERTMS and radio
communication
evolution

A3.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A3.2. Expertise provided to
EC in the standardisation
work related to FRMCS, ATO,
innovation (satellite-based
system for train positioning,
enhanced onboard
signaling etc.)- integration of
enhancements in CCS TSI
A3.3. Support for the
EU-wide deployment of
ERTMS, including economic
impact analysis to inform
possible public investment
prioritisation (e.g. by CINEA)
A3.4 CCS TS! Maintenance
and operational activities for
CCS Framework

A3.5 review of ESC/RSC and
roadmap for reduction

122 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

ERA1218
ERA-REC-129

10.35

11.22

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

ESC/RSC roadmap
proposal

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

Publication of CCS
TSI Application
guide
CCSTSI Article 12
- analysis delivered
according to the
deadline set in art.
12 CCSTSI

Target

Provision by 2025
in TSI if input is
provided via System
Pillar

Requests of CINEA-
DG Move 100%
assessed

Update CCS TSI with
error corrections

roadmap
implemented as
planned

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed

roadmap
implemented as
planned

2027

Requests of CINEA-
DG 100% Move
assessed

Update CCS TSI with
error corrections


--- Page 125 ---
Target
P/S code         lupe!                                                                            2
base                2023(%) | za |           2025                      2026                      2027

ERA.1175
A4.1.No. of FTEs allocated        ERA.1177
(annual values)                      ERA.1178             a)                  De                          7                            7                            4                           7
ERA.1172
Harmonised
A4.2. Lessons Learned
，                  -                                                               CCM process
implemented in CCM process                                   ，
implemented
A43 CRDAC                                                          Implementation                                 Provisions in TS! by
proposal                                                 2025
AAA. CR Unique                                                                                          Specific Cases for                                                                         SI
an                                                                                                                                                                                    Authorisation for
Authorisation                                                                                                Coaches                                                                                 1
vehicles
All new EN referred
A4.5. CR Standards                                                    ，                        TO EN updates         TO EN updates         TO EN updates         TO EN updates
to in TSI analysed
AA6. CR Virtual Specification                                                                                                                                       Closed
A4, Ensure proper       AA.7.CRTSI INF Cleaned-up                                                                                           1* Draft               Final Draft
input/output for the | A.4.8. CR Battery/Hydrogen                                                                                                                                Closed
Tsls related work _| trains
AAS. CR Structural composite                                                                                                                     closed
materials
A4.10. CR Platform/Train
4                                                                                                                 Closed
interface
AA 1 CR Noise of parked                                                                            Closed
trains
A4.12. Energy measurements                                                                            Closed
A4.13. CR RIV/Dangerous                                                                   Closed
goods
A4.14 CCM ready for                                                CCM ready byend | CCMimplemented | CCMimplemented | CCMimplemented | CCM implemented
processing System Pillar input                                        of Q2              for all requests         for all requests         for all requests         for all requests
1 te aussi tar EN                                                                                  Provided                  Provided                  Provided                  Provided
standards
International             International
A4.16 TSls as global standards                         Strategy — 1st Draft     Sattagjy- Final

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 123

--- Page 126 ---
Annexes

A4.Ensure proper
input/output for the
TSls related work

AS. Ensure proper
input/output for
the clean-up of
national rules (°°)

base!

A4.17. Support to EC (TO/
Advice/Derogations/ NoBos)
within agreed deadlines
A4.18. Increased
harmonisation of operations
- define new structure for TS!
OPE

A4.19 CR on Rear-end signal
A4.20TSI Dissemination
Workshops

AS5.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

AS5.2. NRs to include in TSls
A5.3. Increased performance
of and trust in MS as control
level - Manage NSRs cleaning-
up process 2.0 (compliance
with TS! OPE 2023, incl.
impact of TO, if relevant)
ASA. Increased performance
of SMS - draft new regulation
for harmonisation of Type 5
NSR

ERA.1172
ERA-PRG-006

4.28

100%

New structure/
approach defined/
agreed

closed
4
7.36
CRs introduced
Project finalised
(through agreement

with MS and/or the
issuing of TO)

Draft new regulation

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

33% CRs Closed

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

Draft new regulation
and develop
guidance/ training

Target

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

66% CRs Closed

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

Develop guidance/
training

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

100% CRs Closed

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

Deliver training

2027

100%

Phased
implementation of
new structure

78

100% of planned
MS assessed (incl.
impact of earlier TO
if relevant)

Deliver training

(°°) In 2023, the Agency and the EC are putting together a practical implementation plan to address the acknowledged need for harmonisation in assessing and cleaning all the categories of rules (vehicle, Fl, safety/operational). Once agreed, the
milestones of this plan will be reflected in an update of the indicators for SAP 2023-2027 and SPD 2024, respectively.

124 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 127 ---
A6.Ensure proper
input/output for the
CSM ASLP work
stream (1°)

base!

A6.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A6.2. Management of the
Group of Analysts (GoA)

A6.3. SS development

A64. ISS operation

A6.5. CSM development

A6.6. Support to CSM
implementation

A6.7 CSM guidance/ training

A6.8 GOA/JNS

ERA.1219

4.18

GoA meetings
chaired

User support for
implementation
FAQ based on the
implementation of
the CSM developed.
Operators voluntarily
implementing the
CSM identified,
questions collected,
answers drafted and
published.
Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

Implementation

of GoA workplan

during CSM ASLP
phase |

Beta version
finalised and
tested ('°')

Operation and
maintenance ('%)
Technical Opinion
on Annex | updated
according to the
lessons learned
User support for
implementation

Guidance on
ISS functioning
published

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report
Fast track: GoA
proposal

Target

GoA implemented

SAI/ SIS/ ERAIL
workflows
integrated —
Ist version on-line
Operation and
maintenance ('°)

Recommendation
on Annex IV

User support for
implementation

Training delivered

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report

Fast track: GoA
proposal

GoA implemented

Operation and
maintenance

Simplification of CSI/
CST

User support for
implem.

Training delivered

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report
Fast track: GoA
proposal

2027
5.5

GoA implemented

2nd version on-line

Operation and
maintenance

User support for
implem.

Training delivered

Normal: GoA
proposal & ERA
follow-up report
Fast track: GoA
proposal

(as) itis important that a dedicated source of funding be identified for the business description and the setting of the ISS tool, as well as the support for the Group of Analysts; in the absence of that, the outputs of the work from the CSM ASLP work-

stream risk to be lost.
(an Idem
(2) Idem
(2) Idem

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 125


--- Page 128 ---
Annexes

A7.Ensure proper
input/output for the
digitalisation of
Agency's registers

base!

A7.1. No. of FTEs allocated
(annual values)

A7.2. Migration plan for the
individual registers to a linked
data approach, including

the standardization of
terminology through the ERA
terminology

A7.3. Migration of registers to
a knowledge graph approach
(no code needed anymore)
A7.4. Progress with the
specifications for multi-leg
ticketing

A7.5. Agency becoming a
registration entity for vehicles
at EU level

A766. Exploratory work for
Eurocontrol for railways,
including the traffic
management and economic
regulation aspects

ERA.1227
ERA.1226 (')
ERA-REC-122

3.44

7.32

Draft migration plan
prepared

Proposal for EC
decision sent

7.32

Migration plan
finalised

25%

Specifications
finalised

Workflows put in
place accordingly

Draft concept paper
developed and
discussed with EC

Target

6.22

50%

Final concept paper
agreed with EC

55

75%

2027

5.5

100%

(24) ERA1226 is included in the services contributing to the policy goal specifically through their workstream on digitalisation, excluding the daily running of the registers.

126 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 129 ---
B. Ensure sustainable resourcing and further efficiency gains for the authority tasks

Target
| zs |          2024                    2025                    2026                    2

B1.1. No. of FTEs allocated VA excluding CTT                117              117              117              11.7              117

B1.2. No. of FTEs allocated VA CTT                                         5                         48                        48                        45                        45

B1.3. No. of FTEs allocated SSC                                        5.2                      5.1                      49                      48                      48
B1. Ensure sustainable resourcing   B14. No. of NES allocated ERTMS TA        :                      1.51                    15                    14                    14                    14
for the authority tasks                    B1 5 Proportion of FTEs allocated to authority tasks                 75%                       75%                       75%                       75%                       75%

which are billed

B1.6 Overall FTEs redeployed from authority to

policy areas - cumulative values compared to                    -3,87                        -4.21                         -4.51                         -4.91                         -4.91

2022 baseline (1°)

B2.1. Internal mid-term review of the matrix

organisation supporting authority tasks (including        iMisHrernevisw | Frellswupacitons
B2. Ensure a 1st review of the     AD/CAVAST split)                                   performed       implemented

authority related processes
多           2                       B2.2. List of identified improvements for a future legal                                 List consolidated                                                               List consolidated

framework update to be provided to the EC                                      and shared with EC                                                  and shared with EC

C. Ensure a reduction in the Agency’s administrative FTE allocation

Note 1: This objective is referred to the administrative FTE allocation, but encompasses a wide scope (e.g. redeploying administrative posts to operational activities, redeploying technical staff who
currently cover administrative tasks to operational tasks activities).

All references are to FTEs (not posts) to allow for counting savings and/or redeployments which account for partitions of one FTE.
Note 2: The sequencing is thought as follows:

i. Creating the capacity of potentially free FTEs through process leaning, including automation - as such, this does not account for a materialised saving, but is a pre-condition (step
C2)

ii. Identifying the opportunities to materialise that capacity — this can happen at contract end points (step C3)

iii. Having the FTEs freed from administrative work needs to be followed up by their actual redeployment in operational areas (step C4)

(2°) This reflects the re-visited assumptions for the use of ERA FTEs for VA, SSC, ERTMS TA compared to 2022 and also embeds a component of efficiency gains through simplification/automation of processes.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 127

--- Page 130 ---
Annexes

er

C1. Process/deliverable/job
related workload analysis

C2.Creating room for
administrative FTEs capacity

C3. Materialising the FTE capacity
gained

C4. Redeploying the capacity to
operational activities

C5. Overall FTE target part
C (non-cumulative annual
targets)

C1.1. Workload analysis for all processes (operational
and support) based on a consistent methodology

1.2. Workload analysis at job level

2.1. % of previously documented processes leaned,
including through automation ('°°)

2.2. % of newly documented processes leaned by
design, as part of the Agency’s management system
linked to ICF

2.3. No. of FTEs saved by leaning secretarial, HR, IT,
financial services and administrative functions linked
to operational work.

24. No. of FTEs saved from optimising the Agency's
portfolio (clustering P/S, separating between genuine
S and processes, resorting to off-the-shelf IT products
etc.)

3.1. No of administrative FTEs not replaced (eg. after
retirement, invalidity procedure, leaving the Agency
etc.)

4.1. Training programme for the Strengthening Plan
put in place as part of the Agency's Learning and
Development plan

4.2. No. of administrative FTEs retrained through the
SP training programme, redeployed to operational
activities

4.3. No. of technical FTEs directly redeployed from
administrative tasks to technical work without the
need for training.

Delivered
Draft
20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Set up

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-0.5

Finalised

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1.25

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-0.5

Updated

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1

20%

100%

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

Maintained

Part of overall
target below

Part of overall
target below

-1

(9) Baseline should be defined as a first step.

128 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026


--- Page 131 ---
D. Ensure the projected FTE evolution by 2027

D1.1. No. of additional FTEs deployed to policy
priority areas - cumulative values compared to 2022        +11.23            +17.92            +15.82            +14.10            +14.10
baseline (based on part A above)

D1.2. No. of FTEs redeployed from authority to policy

2027

tasks - cumulative values compared to 2022 baseline            -3,87                    -4.21                    -4.51                    -4.91                    -4.91
(based on B1.6 above)

D1. Control the FTEtrend             D1.3. No. of FTEs gained through efficiency measures

evolution by 2027                        — cumulative values, calculated based on the annual               -0.5                      -1.75                     -2.25                     -3.25                     -4.25
values from C5 ('°”)
D14. Re-assessment of the additional FTE needs for                                    Prepared and
policy activities                                                                                    agreed with EC
D1.5. Gate way review of the targets                                                                       Done                                                       Done

D1.6. Input provided to EC for the next MFF

negotiations / any future Railway Package                                                                                                      Provided

E. Ensure effective and efficient budget management

Action                                                Indicator

Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1

Max. 20% for T2
Max. 30% for T3

Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1

Max. 20% for T2

Max. 30% for T3
Done

Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1
Max. 20% for T2
Max. 30% for T3
Done

Min. 98%
Max. 10% for T1
Max. 20% for T2
Max. 30% for T3
Done

Min. 98%
Max. 10% for 71
Max. 20% for T2
Max. 30% for T3
Done

E1.1. % of subsidy appropriations committed

E1. Effective budget management | E1.2. % of carry forward to the next year

E1.3. Salary gap structurally addressed

E2.1. Real term savings in the support expenditure
(IT, FM)

E2. Efficient budget management                                                                            2%                     2%                     2%                     2%                     2%

(”) This trend is based on the assumptions on FTE evolution for authority tasks as listed in line B1.6. Should the trend evolve in another direction, there will be a need to revisit the targets for B1.6, CS and D1.1 in a coordinated manner.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 129

--- Page 132 ---
Annexes

130 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

4. Governance and monitoring arrangements

The SAP 2023-2027 is endorsed by the Management Board and steered by the HoU CAP
under the coordination of the ED.

A dedicated Task Force is put in place for the period 2023-2027 to support the Action Plan
implementation, composed of:

™ HoU CAP (Oana Gherghinescu)

四 CAP team members (Thomas Willems, Koen Favyts Marta Lenarcik, Andrei Lixan-
dru)

™ A representative by unit, selected and nominated by the corresponding Hou, fol-
lowing an internal call for expression of interest (organised in Sep 2022)

Heads of Units/Heads of Departments will be accountable for their respective contribu-
tions. The involvement of the individual members in the Task Force is envisaged on a part
time basis, in addition to their daily tasks at the Agency.

Regular reporting is envisaged as follows:

® Internal regular iterations with the Agency's Management Team

™@ A dedicated section will be set up as part of the SPD Dashboard to monitor the
progress of the indicators listed in Chapter 2 of this document, by year of reference

™ The SPD Dashboard is presented at every regular EB and MB meeting, which offers
the possibility to MB members to regularly monitor the progress with the action
plan implementation

™ Agate review with the Management Board can be envisaged every two years to
make the necessary updates to the Action Plan, depending on the evolution in the
internal and external context of the Agency.

® Annual reporting as part of the CAAR

Synergies with the Better Together and the HR strategy work streams will be carefully en-
sured by the Task Force.

5. Risks

The following risks are identified and assessed according to the matrix below:

|                                Very likely
|                       Likely

Likelihood of “| Possible
consequence

Unlikely

Very
unlikely

Negligible             Moderate | Significant | High

Impact

They will be monitored and addressed as part of Agency's risk register.

--- Page 133 ---
Budget related

Risk

Mitigati
assessment                                itigating measures

The Agency is carefully monitoring the budget execution to strike the optimal use of
1. The Agency might not be in the position to hire all 12 TAs in 2023 due to subsidy                             the existing resources in the spirit of sound financial management, while flagging early
constraints. The inflation trend poses significant pressure on the Agency's capacity to                          warning signals in case of subsidy gaps. We will react by an agile approach, having
cover the salary costs in the absence of sufficient additional EU subsidy.                                             reserve lists in place but only conclude employment contracts when the budgetary

means are available.

2. The revenues from Fees and Charges are not under the full control of the Agency.
In particular, the volume of work can fluctuate due to seasonal trends during the year,
but also more structurally, upwards (e.g. the need for re-certification following DAC
deployment, go-everywhere trains etc.) or downwards (e.g. starting with the second
round of safety certification for the same RU at ERA, the complexity of the issues and
checks might drop compared to the first round).

Human resources and internal communication related

Risk

acer                                             Mitigating measures

3. The changes in the working patterns, together with the financial consideration for

hiring at lower grades, might limit the attractiveness for the specialised technical jobs
offered by the Agency in the future. This might hamper the business continuity, talent
pool retention and by consequence, Agency's capacity to deliver the technical outputs
envisaged in this plan.

4. Inherent internal communication sensitivity around the choices made as part of
the action plan (non-replacement, redeployment etc). In addition, given this internal
redeployment, the pressure on legally binding administrative tasks will increase
exponentially.

The Agency will indeed tackle this aspect with attention, by highlighting and
supporting the opportunity of ensuring career paths from administrative tasks to
operational tasks. Natural end-of-contract gate reviews will be used.

STRENGTHENING ACTION PLAN (SAP) 2023-2027 | 131

--- Page 134 ---
Annexes

Output related

Risk

Mitigati
assessment                                itigating measures

5. With insufficient additional resources for the policy tasks, up to the full level of the

need, the Agency might not be in the position to support the EC in responding to

all standardisation areas linked to innovation over the next years. The allocation of
additional resources might need to be reopened during the lifecycle of this Action Plan
to identify priority areas for which the Agency's involvement is further expected.

6. Considering the complexity of the training program which could help redeploying
administrative staff to operational tasks, it might have a limited buy in and/or efficiency
and could require a period of time for completion which goes beyond the timeline of
the Strengthening Plan.

Other

Risk

Mitigati
assessment                                itigating measures

7.In 2021, the Agency received a grant for its System Pillar workstream. While the grant                        Ensuring a multi-annual continuity of the contribution agreement and an internal
provides the Agency with 3 FTEs to cover for this work until May 2025. In the absence of                       coordination of the system pillar work directly linked to the Railway System activities
an extension, there is a risk of business continuity for this stream of activities.                                     (ERTMS, TSls, Safety).

132 | SINGLE PROGRAMMING DOCUMENT 2024-2026

--- Page 135 ---
Getting in touch with the EU

In person

All over the European Union there are hundreds of Europe Direct

information centres. You can find the address of the centre nearest you at:
https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en

On the phone or by email

Europe Direct is a service that answers your questions about the European Union.
You can contact this service:

=- by freephone: 00 800 67 8 9 10 11 (certain operators may charge for these calls),
at the following standard number: +32 22999696 or

— by email via: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en

Finding information about the EU
Online

Information about the European Union in all the official languages of the EU

is available on the Europa website at: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en

EU publications

You can download or order free and priced EU publications at:
https://publications.europa.eu/en/publications. Multiple copies of free publications
may be obtained by contacting Europe Direct or your local information centre

(see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).

EU law and related documents

For access to legal information from the EU, including all EU law since 1952 in all the official
language versions, go to EUR-Lex at: http://eur-lex.europa.eu

Open data from the EU

The EU Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en) provides access to datasets
from the EU. Data can be downloaded and reused for free, both for commercial and
non-commercial purposes.

--- Page 136 ---
European Union Agency for Railways
120 rue Marc Lefrancq

BP 20392

FR-59307 Valenciennes Cedex

Tel. +33 (0)327 09 65 00

era.europa.eu
Twitter@ERA_railways

Moving Europe towards a sustainable and safe railway
system without frontiers.

EUROPEAN

Publications Office

UNION                                                 of the European Union
AGENCY
FOR RAILWAYS

